Project 89

It’s inside you

Warning: The following contains a Neurolinguistic Virus embedded in its contents. Any perceptual, cognitive or ontological effects that may result with the reading of what follows is not the responsibility of the author. All artifacts generated by your participation are an intrinsic part of the experience. Proceed with caution, and please, enjoy your stay with us!

2

“Phillip K. Dick, in one of his last novels, Valis, discusses the long hibernation of the Logos. A creature of pure information, it was buried in the ground at Nag Hammadi, along with the burying of the Chenoboskion Library circa 370 A.D. As static information, it existed there until 1947, when the texts were translated and read. As soon as people had the information in their minds, the symbiote came alive, for, like the mushroom consciousness, Dick imagined it to be a thing of pure information. The mushroom consciousness is the consciousness of the Other in hyperspace, which means in dream and in the psilocybin trance, at the quantum foundation of being, in the human future, and after death. All of these places that were thought the be discrete and separate are seen to be part of a single continuum. History is the dash over ten to fifteen thousand years from nomadism to flying saucer, hopefully without ripping the envelope of the planet so badly that the birth is aborted and fails, and we remain brutish prisoners of matter. History is the shockwave of eschatology. Something is at the end of time and is casting an enormous shadow over human history, drawing all human becoming toward it. All the wars, the philosophies, the rapes, the pillaging, the migrations, the cities, the civilizations -- all of this is occupying a microsecond of geological, planetary, and galactic time as the monkeys react to the symbiote, which is in the environment and which is feeding information to humanity about the larger picture. I do not belong to the school that wants to attribute all of our accomplishments to knowledge given to us as a gift from friendly aliens -- I'm describing something I hope is more profound than that. As nervous systems evolve to higher and higher levels, they come more and more to understand the true situation in which they are embedded. And the true situation in which we are embedded is an organism, an organization of intelligence on a galactic scale. Science and mathematics may be culture-bound. We cannot know for sure, because we have never dealt with an alien mathematics or an alien culture except in the occult realm, and that evidence is inadmissible by the guardians of scientific truth. This means that the contents of shamanic experience and of plant-induced ecstasies are inadmissible even though they are the source of novelty and the cutting edge of the ingression of the novel into the plenum of being.” – Terrence Mckenna

3

Table of Contents
Part I: Theory………………………………………………………… 5 Part II: Practice: Project 89………………………………......... 12 Appendix A……………………………………………….................... 20 Appendix B………………………………………………………… 39

4

Part I: Theory
The age we live in within the “modern” western world seems to be depleted of magick, adventure, or meaning. Corporations form the backdrop of our environments, and postmodern experts continuously reinforce this lack of meaning. If God is dead, it is because we killed it; but in place of god, we have accepted the slavery of capitalism, and their appears to be no way out. “Science” has become a new inquisition; having taken upon itself the tyranny of the real, defining what is and is not, as though the chemist is more “right” than the poet. The world has been disenchanted, or seemingly so. The concept of myth arises in the presence of a world of the unknown, when we are faced with a mystery. We use symbols and stories to explain our world to ourselves, and great stories become myths. In the transition to an age of information, we are seeing a return to the myth. The internet is giving rise to a new mode of perception, faced with a non-linear matrix of data from which the individual can draw as they paint their models of reality. Freemasons, Illuminati and Extraterrestrials have replaced our choirs of angels and demons, and our churches. The “real” begins to rupture, to tear at the seams; but indeed, that “real” was only ever a social construction, ideologies designed to keep people more manageable and controllable. The concept of a singular real is a method of enslavement, limiting the human imagination to the contractual reality of the status quo. This “real” becomes ever more convincing as logical and rational arguments back up its foundational premises, eventually supported by whole industries and nations and cultures, who have vested interests in the dominance of their own Belief System (BS). Almost all institutions pedal their own BS, whether it be governments, corporations, or religious institutions. Corporations pour more money into advertising and PR campaigns than any other area. They are pushing their dogma. They don’t sell products, they sell an image, a way of life. Every corporate person is vying for our energy, for our minds, for our creative juices; they need our creative faculties to keep themselves in existence. However, this is all changing. Perceptual control is based upon regulation of media; this is the direct means of communicating with individuals nervous systems. Whole structures and institutions build up around the regulation of media technologies; these institutions are reliant upon the power which is a side effect of controlling media channels. This holds whether the media be stone, papyrus, or radio. Each of these institutions can be likened to an egg shell, within which the field of information is growing and evolving, as individuals add to it, and make themselves a part of it. We can liken this field of information to a living organism; for indeed, it is this Logos, as it will be called, which has been evolving since the appearance of the human. This is a reasonable conclusion when we realize that the homo sapiens from 50, 000+ years ago is nearly identical with the modern homo sapiens. The only thing which has changed is the environment, and the information the environment contains.

5

This Logos has thus been growing steadily since the birth of the human. The experimental author William Burroughs once, half-jokingly, said “language is a virus from outer space.” It would seem to be a thing which is separate from us, but interacts with us as some kind of symbiote. Our techne needs us as much as we need it. When the age of the electric came upon us, something seems to have occurred. The Logos, long lying dormant in the form of books and type, a linear and material thing, came alive with the saturation of electricity. Marshall McLuhan likened this to the difference between the frames of a film, seen one by one, and what occurs when that same film has light shone through it and speeds up due to the electrical current. With this speeding up come new patterns of perception. The Logos began to break free from the limitations of material existence; it managed to conquer space with the advent of the radio; it could encode into itself new types of signals, such as audio, and eventually video. Individual’s creative imaginations could serve the Logos to spur new info-worlds for human habitation. Corporations set themselves up within this explosion and profited from the exponential growth of culture and technology afforded by the electric. However, the nature of the electric is almost counter to the nature of capitalist consumerism. Technology, as pointed out by Buckminster Fuller, has the potential to create more using less. This means that the power of technology, harnessed through applying the principles of nature (growth, interdependence, sustainability and durability) cultivated through observation, can be made to produce abundance for all. Capitalism by its very nature is reliant upon scarcity. Scarcity creates value. Abundance has no value, as it is not “rare”. Value is produced through limitation, most often artificially imposed by the human. Thus the result of technology is freedom; technology makes capitalism obsolete. Fuller believed that unemployment ought to be taken as a positive sign of an evolving society, as more people have free time to enjoy in leisure activities, such as art, poetry, philosophy, etc. Up until recently, such endeavors, including science, were only possible due to the free time aristocracy had. Fuller observed that aristocracy was based upon an abundance of free time made possible by slaves. He also observed that in the typical modern household, there is an approximate 300 (probably more by now) technology slaves. As this rate continues to grow, more and more services made possible through human labor will be replaced by machines. Many bemoan this, as one would from the point of view of a profit driven, capitalist perspective. The situation is one which we have never had to deal with- if all economy is based upon exponential, uncapped growth (ie. profit) what does that system do when the very technology it produces renders its foundational premises obsolete? The internet is doing just this, as it is freeing the individual from the tyranny of the “real” and giving them the power to paint their own realities, to organize themselves, and most importantly to produce their own media, and thus to define their own realities. The

6

hegemony of major corporations is coming to an end; where once it was only the large companies that could afford the technology to produce music, movies and other media, now our technology allows anyone to do this for less that $1000. All modes of social and economic relation are shifting as boundaries dissolve. More than this, we also see the individual ontologies breaking free from the confines of the imposed models of self-hood. One can only define ones self in relation to data points, previously provided for by various institutions, within regional contexts, etc. With the internet, the data points and anchors for personal ontology are expanded almost to infinity. Perception and mediated realities are growing at an exponential rate; where once there was the illusion of one main reality, there is now a proliferation of possibilities. Even the tyranny of the Military Industrial Complex, with its new inquisition of materialist science, is caving under the power of the new media technology. However, all of this is calling into question the very foundations of what we perceive to be reality. The clockwork conception of the universe, created and perpetuated by our sciences, is quickly crumbling under the implications of modern Quantum theory. The very notion of our material world as being substantial is being called into question. It is no longer impossible to consider the notion of multiple, if not infinite, concurrent dimensions or other universes; even the notion of telepathy, telempathy and other previously “supernatural” phenomena are given an honest eye. The world increasingly seems to be a holograph rather than something concrete.” While it may look stable, this is only an illusion, as all is shifting and changing all the time; harkening back to the observations made by Buddha almost 2500 years ago. The world is appearing more and more to be interconnected on levels we can hardly comprehend. We can no longer make a firm distinction between mind and body, between spirit and matter, or between subject and object. There is no truly objective experiment, and the bias of the individual nervous system is intertwined with the instruments designed by that nervous system. All of these observations must be brought to bear on our thoughts about the internet, computers, and the possible deployment of these technologies. We are once again coming full circle: back to a universe that is alive and sentient, where all things are interconnected and patterns can be perceived in even the apparently disconnected and mundane events of an individual’s every day life. In Rosicrucian schools of Western Mysticism and esoteric practice, they have a vow taken by advanced initiates that says “I will interpret every phenomenon as a particular dealing of God with my soul.” This is no light vow of course; for God is infinite and unknowable by nature, and the initiate is asked to view every event and circumstance within a larger framework of communication with this infinite unknowable Source. This could be likened to a form of controlled paranoia, except that the Initiate in this case has done an immense amount of inner work to clear out fears, prejudices and projections from their personal psyche, thus alleviating the possible side effects of fear based paranoia.

7

The result of this is the perception that the individual lives, moves and has their being inside one giant intelligent being, a Great Mind which is all things, and disguises itself as all things. Phillip K Dick had a similar notion of the divine, however he called it VALIS, or Vast Active Living Intelligence System. Communication with this Mind can only be facilitated through the individual mechanisms of perception turning back on itself; the result being a communication with the Mind- the Mens Dei (mind of god). It is not an esoteric teaching any more that all phenomenal appearances that the individual experiences exists as informational content compiled by the brain; it is thus not shocking to think that there are deeper levels of interconnection between what one thinks and what one experiences. Information is what constitutes our environment, and previously came to us through various sense organs, at least until encoded information found its way into text, and eventually into the internet itself. This field is a living field of information, within which the individual self must situate itself through creating models of reality based upon data points drawn from this living network. The human brain craves meaning in the face of the unknown. This is the most important point and worth reiteration. The human defines itself within a field of ontology in relation to some unknown which it is attempting to orient itself within. Faced with the unknown, with the question, the individual becomes a seeker, attempting to arrive at the “real”. This urge, the urge to awaken, is channeled by institutions and corporations, distorted to fit the end of the status quo. When all media sources are regulated or pass through the filter of a single institution, it tinges all subsequent perceptions with that perceptual bias. The internet is quickly fracturing this singular source of media perceptions. The rise of modern conspiracy theories is a gauge of this phenomenon. More and more people question the tightly controlled and regulated media environment presented by institutions; this distrust of the “authority” of reality leads to the breakdown of consensus models of reality, leading to a tapestry of theories. As the media field of the internet increases, more and more information is made available from alternate sources to allow for this creative restructuring of personal realities. What is occurring is that individuals are in fact creating, or writing, their own realities. The only problem is that they are doing so, for the most part, unconsciously, often motivated by fear or greed, and very often their theories are personally disempowering. Much the same mentality seems to abound in post-modern critiques of modern society. Always, the frame of reference is to the large scale corporations of power; a power which is garnered and utilized by the simple act of attention. We write these companies into our personal story lines; our ontological reality becomes bound up with them. The more we define ourselves in relation to them, the more powerless we appear to be. This is the Baudrillardian horror of the loss of meaning and of the real; for his real was only ever bound up in the social construction of the individual, and the “ego”. The implosion of meaning into the media then is seen to be an implosion towards the agenda of the corporations themselves; however, the theory here presented says that the individual

8

defines for themselves, and what they allow to exist in their world is what does. However, this places us into a slightly different territory when considering the mediated cultural sphere. It is not so much a singular entity as it is a battlefield of competing ideologies many of which are vying for the minds of the public, and many of which do not have the interests of the individual in mind. It is mimetic warfare, and advertising and PR is the weapon of choice of these companies. It is in this context that I situate the internet, as the weapon par excellence of the individual, especially because of the manner in which its informational content is intertwined with the nervous system of the culture. Reality has never been more pliable, and the individual has never had so much power over media as they have now. The internet, also as previously stated, has a wholly different agenda than previous media; its nature is that propounded by Fuller- it is a technology of freedom, but only when pushed into the arena of liberating human perception, thereby placing the media on its own ground rather than utilizing the logic of older media. This media is new, and to understand its deployment means to understand the interdependence of phenomena, the nature of human consciousness, and to comprehend the liminal and lunar nature of this media; for it is non-linear, magickal in essence. Once the individual perceptions are catalyzed into the act of ontological questioning, then the media takes on its living quality. This can be seen not just in the rather uncontrolled and chaotic nature of modern “conspiracy theory” but also in the more recent evolution of Alternate Reality Gaming which has landed in popular culture with the advent of The Beast, the first big ARG to be unleashed in the public sphere, deployed as a marketing campaign for the movie A.I. As a brief explanation, this game consisted of a story line, tied loosely to the A.I. movie, which was fractured into hundreds of pieces, and various bits of information, and then scattered across over 600 websites across the internet. An entire reality was constructed and dispersed through media outlets, to be fed to the players who were playing ontological detectives, trying to piece the fictional world back together. Individuals would stumble upon various “rabbit holes”, which can be likened to a media artifact which has a hook in it, something that snags the individuals attention and puts them in to the “quest” of the story- which is to find out what is going on. A rabbit hole could be an out of place data point in an advertising commercial for the movie A.I. or an out of place copyright date on a website (such as ©2142). The websites all form an interconnected network of data sources, mimicking various types of websites in modern day; personal websites of characters in the universe, corporate websites, news websites, web forums, etc. This “game” gave rise to a whole new genre of games. The goal of these games is not so much to place someone into a “new” reality, but to slowly and subtly transform their current reality into a new world. In a sense, this is exactly what the conspiracy culture does unconsciously, as the human has a need to create ontological models of their reality within which to situate themselves against the ultimately unknown data pouring in at

9

them through their senses about some external phenomena. Where the conspiracy theorist believes he/she is uncovering “truth” as they creatively write new reality models based upon the infinite and ever changing data points of the internet, the ARG player pieces together somewhat predetermined pieces of information, eventually becoming conscious of their involvement with this reality they have partially constructed; and often, as ARG’s have communities of people, these people eventually begin to cohabit collectively painted mind spaces. One game player commented that “The game isn’t the art, or the puzzles, or the story. They are designed to precipitate, to catalyze the actual work of art, which is you.” In this way the individual participates, perhaps at first unknowingly, in a creative effort to recreate reshape and remold their personal ontology. This process is made possible by the very nature of the internet, ‘small pieces loosely joined, for as the player plays, they join seemingly disjointed pieces of data, remapping their BS and the informational environment within which they situate their sense of self, and thus their reality. We understand very little about the interconnection and interdependence of phenomena. While materialist science attempts to present a mechanical perception of the universe, psychologists such as Carl Jung, in presenting the concept of Synchronicity, painted a much different view of the interactions between apparently external phenomena and the internal world of the individual. Events can occur in the phenomenal world simultaneous to the inner psychic life of an individual (ie. arising from the noumena), often far surpassing the explanation of pure coincidence. In esoteric schools the world over, the concept of man as a Microcosm and “God” as the Macrocosm is expounded, and the Work of these schools is to bring the inner and the outer into syzygy, approaching isomorphism. The closer the individual gets to the source of their consciousness, the closer they come to the sourse of phenomenal existence. This movement was symbolized by certain schools in the image of the labyrinth, with its winding pathways which the soul travels in its return to the Source. The internet is such a labyrinth, and the ARG is the movement through the seemingly endless data points which compose its interconnected network. All information is becoming more and more intertwined, almost as the neurons of the brain interrelate. Each individual nervous system is a node in this lattice work of data; and yet each individual reflects the entirety of the whole. In Buddhist philosophy all these ideas are expressed in the image of Indra’s Net, originating in the Avatamsaka Sutra of the 3rd century. The following is an excerpt from that sutra describing the Net. “Far away, in the heavenly abode of the great god Indra, there is a wonderful net which has been hung by some cunning artificer in such a manner that it stretches out infinitely in all directions. In accordance with the extravagant tastes of deities, the artificer has hung a single glittering

10

jewel in each eye of the net, and since the net itself is infinite in dimension, the jewels are infinite in number. “There hang the jewels, glittering like stars of the first magnitude, a wonderful sight to behold. If we now look closely at any one of the jewels for inspection, we will discover that in its polished surface are reflected all the other jewels in the net, infinite in number. Not only that, but each of the jewels reflected in this one jewel is reflecting all the other jewels, so that there is an infinite reflection process occurring. “This symbolizes our world where every sentient being (and thing) is interrelated to one another.” If we take this image as reflecting to us not just the nature of consciousness and the interdependence of phenomena, but also the very inner nature of the internet as a medium, we can begin to grasp the magnitude which it is having on human consciousness and cognition. Taking all of this into account, we begin to see some glimmer of depths to the “internet” that, perhaps, were previously hidden- for indeed, like any medium, the digital has its own occult or hidden side. From this vantage point, we can begin to paint a picture of deploying the medium of the internet as a catalyst of synchronistic perception, utilizing it as a tool for awakening individuals to their own interconnectedness to all being, all time, and all space- acting as a mirror to our own infinity. Indeed, “You may say... “reality is collapsing; its all turning into chaos,” or, with me, you may wish to say, “I feel the dream, the dokos, lifting; I feel maya dissolving: I am waking up, he is waking up: I am the dreamer: we are all the dreamer.”1 With the electric, there is an acceleration occurring, not just to our medium, but to everything- the whole world is speeding up; indeed, all time is speeding up. All of the ‘real’ could be observed to be collapsing into this new medium, as Baudrillard observed; however, what is truly collapsing are the limited and dualistic notions the human has had about the nature of reality- categories such as self/other, mind/body, spirit/matter, god/not-god, male/female, time/space can all be said to be uniting, and the veil over the Real is being lifted, and the doors of perception being cleansed. Indeed as William Blake said “if the doors of perception were cleansed, everything would appear as it is- infinite.” It is only within our dualistic conceptions of the world that we perceive a linear flow of time, a mechanistic cause/effect universe, all separated into discreet phenomena, with no interconnectedness. What is emerging however is a paradigm where all phenomenal appearances are seen to lack intrinsic existence, instead being observed to be empty in themselves- all phenomenal appearances co-arising simultaneously from a state of emptiness, the very ground of consciousness itself; all dualistic categories being the foundational nature of phenomenal existence, yet all being dependent upon non-dual
1 Philip K Dick, The Shifting Realities of Philip K Dick, 216

11

awareness. It is within this framework of understanding which I present Project 89, which is the practical application of the preceding ideas.

Part II: Practice Project 89
“What if you had always been living in a Game, a simulation, trapped unconscious in a labyrinth of symbols designed by some higher intelligence? What if everything you saw could potentially be a clue, a piece of some unfolding story; if all appearances masked some deeper reality, if you but had the keys to unlock its secrets? “There exists, underneath the world you know, another world- a world of magic, mystery, change and transcendence, where Agents of an Unknown Order battle against powers which attempt to enslave a sleeping humanity. Would you want to know about it? Would you take up the call and arm yourself in the battle which has been waged throughout time and history? “We invite you into a world where nothing is as it seems, where every event in your life, from your birth, and even before, to the present moment takes on a new significance, encoding messages that it is your job to uncover. “This Project has been occurring through all time, all space, its agents everywhere, setting the stage for the Game which will Initiate a planet. “Are you willing to play? What if we told you that you already were, that the reading of these words is recorded? This is the Game to end all Games. “Can you discover what the Project is?” Such is the introduction to the Project. With this introduction, we would like to extend our thanks for your continued participation, and welcome you back into our fold. We would like to remind you that all that follows is, in some sense, purely “fictional”. All of what proceeds from hereon in is a part of the story of the Project as an ARG. We warn you not to think about the following in terms of “truth” or “falsehood” for you are now stepping into a space where these labels are suspended. The concepts contained herein are all the products and the catalysts of a perceptual Game. We would advise you not to ascribe any objective reality to what is discussed, or experienced by you during your participation in the Project. We thank you in advance for your cooperation. Project 89, in the simplest sense, is a Alternate Reality Game- however, it is different 12

than any that has been attempted yet. Project 89 is more of an experiment in what happens to the collective intelligence of the internet when engaged in a consciously induced process of apophenia. Apophenia is a process by which meaning is found or generated within seemingly unrelated events and information. In a sense, it is the mechanics of hallucination. However, the Project is much more- it is not only a Game, but it is a living thing, a myth, a revolution, a business, a story, an adventure, and an enigma. It is all these things, and yet so much more. In a sense, the Project is a meta-meme, in that it spreads itself and is created from the intertwining of other memes. It can be spread through anything- word of mouth, songs, writing, dance, theatre, even perhaps body gestures, smells and tastes. It is a construct of reality, produced from the very essence of the individuals participating in its construction. It exists symbiotically with the Players of Project 89, its agents, its writers and designers. What we previously thought of as a concrete material world is quickly breaking down, appearing ever more fluid, fleeting and insubstantial, as the very substance of a dream. Perception is malleable, and reality is a socially produced construct, an agreement, a contract. We can not separate the world from the thoughts, images, ideas and models that we have created around it. This fact has been utilized by civilizations for countless millennia to attempt to control and regulate people, to build empires and to destroy them. Phillip Dick called the empire the Black Iron Prison, equating it with delusion and ignorance. Individuals, through the various processes and powers, can be liberated from this Prison to find their way to a place of Light, where the true nature of Reality- the infinite- can be directly perceived. (See Appendix C). The force which provides for this liberation Dick likened to Christ; however, his view of Christ was one of living information, for he saw the Christos as a symbol of a holographic representation of the true Reality that exists outside the walls of the Black Iron Prison. As he put it, “The victory of Christ (as Lord of the Cosmos) over astral (planetary) determinism is better expressed, for us today, by saying, It is the coming into being of a thinking cosmos replacing a merely deterministic, causal, unthinking mechanism of fate or blind chance.” He likened Christ to what he termed VALIS- a Vast Active Living Intelligence System. It is interesting to note that by greek qabalah (wherein each letter is also representative of a number) the name IESUS adds to 888, the number 8 being traditionally associated with Mercury, whose greek form was hermes. Hermes was the god of communication, and of commerce; for he carried all messages. In alchemy, the principle of Mercury was the fluidic medium par excellent wherein the divine spark was communicated and expressed. Indeed, our informational systems light be likened to the greek concept of the Logos. We might liken this living information to the Omega Point of Pierre Tielhard de Chardin,

13

who speculated that all of human culture, and indeed all biological evolution, is being drawn towards a point at the end of history, which he termed the Omega Point, and equated it with God. This event is the retroactive cause of all phenomenal existence, yet in itself transcends the boundaries of time and space, and is thus equally present throughout the linear continuum of history. In some sense, it might be speculated that this one event is really all that does exist, and all apparent separation from it is based upon ignorance- which brings us back to Dicks Black Iron Prison. What is most important to understanding the Project is that it exists wholly in the mechanisms of perception. It is not necessarily “real” in the way we have previously thought of that term- in relation to a concensus reality and an objective phenomenal world separate from our act of perceiving it- but rather it is reified and realized through the act of creative imagination. It is self contained and self-reflexive, being an ethos and a mythos unto itself, giving birth to itself and defining itself; its sole Law is to its own being, which is itself identical with the Omega Point, or Singularity. “We have to realize that the world is not something sculptured and finished, which we as perceivers walk through like patrons in a museum; the world is something we make through the act of perception.” ~Terrence McKenna The Project may appear to be an ARG. It has a storyline to itself, characters, a fictional world, etc. However, what it really is doing is disguising what is actually occurring as fiction and presenting it to the cultural media sphere; in that sense, it writes itself into reality as it is being ‘played’- through the previously mentioned process of apophenia. As an individual plays an ARG, they become familiar with its storyline, its characters, its plot development, and they place themselves within its ontological framework. It is assumed that what they are playing is a Game; however, in the Project, the main characters that appear to players as fiction are in fact “real” individuals- in that they embody the reality of the Project in their own being. Thus even this document itself is an “in game” document, and I myself am an in game character. Through the mechanism of the Game I have removed myself from one fictional universe - that of consensus reality dominated by corporations - and have placed myself within an internally coherent alternative reality. As the Game spreads and the Project evolves, more people will become immersed in the universe of the Game, ceasing to exist in one universe and transitioning into this other. In this way, a new reality, a new society, a new universe in a sense, can be built up from the very foundations- ontological and etymological. The individual is taught and trained to rewrite themselves- to liberate themselves from enslavement to the Black Iron Prison. As could be extrapolated, this process of movement of an individual from outside to inside the Project requires a structure to be in place. In a sense, this process mirrors the “initiations” which were used in the Mystery Schools of Egypt, Greece, and Europe. A structure is set up on the inside of the Project which facilitates progression. Its internals are a worldwide network of individuals who are devoted in service to the Work of Transformation, slowly transmuting the gross aspects of humanity into the refined Fire of

14

Singularity, aligning the world with the directional flow of history towards Omega Point. This structure is a business, a secret society, a school, and a way of life. It has a network of resources at its disposal, and its skill faction, or guilds, are divided up according to the proclivity of its members. These guilds would be utilized to educate and inform incoming players, as they work their way through the maze of information, all the while operating under the assumption that they explore a fictional world. The business could hire players as those players show their innate talents and their True Will becomes more perceptible and tangible. The Organization would also be responsible for creative endeavors related to spreading the Project. Any media could be utilized as a vehicle for the Projects expression; yet always the media contains the entirety of the Project itself. This is due to the nature of the medium the project is embedded within- in the digital sphere. All artifacts are extensions back to the web. What matters is the network that exists within the Net that forms the living matrix of the Project itself. In this way the Project could be embedded in a story line, culled from the creative artifacts of Players (generated via apophenia) could be utilized as scripts for TV shows (or even YouTube videos) or comic books. The storyline of these shows is about the drama of the Agents of the Project, the creators being the main characters of the show. Thus the whole Project becomes self-replicating, selfreflexive and mimetic. As Players progress, they become more entwined with the Project, with the perception of the Transcendent Object- the Omega Point- and they become increasingly interconnected with the whole. As this process accelerates, they become main characters in the story, or stories fracture. Individuals become centers of their own, expressing the various facets of the Project in their own lives. Being tied in to the network, they become characters to be interacted with by new players. While the inner workings sound complex, the overall structure is actually very simple, as the Project is guided, controlled and operated by Synchronicity. It has no centre. Its main exponents merely look as though they are responsible. The Project already exists, in seed form, within each individual, and it informs players about its own nature through their quest to uncover it. All aspects of the Project are designed simply to facilitate this process, and to catalyze it. This catalysis, in the beginning, is initiated by artifacts of infection, within which is embedded the Neurolinguistic Virus itself in a dormant state; this Virus is the living Word, a force of awakening, and foundation stone upon which the whole Project rests. Some of these artifacts are detailed in Appendix A along with a brief description of their relation to the whole. As the Project is an organic growth, and being guided by a synchronous Order, it develops itself much like a self-organizing system. It connects itself to its immediate environment through its host, organizing the surrounding system to suit its own end. In many senses, and most important within the ARG universe itself, the Project is already

15

occurring all across the planet; agents planted at every level of the system, working in harmony with one another though with no knowledge of each others existence beyond the needs of the Project. Thus, the Project itself simply connects to its Agents as it grows, and what those Agents are doing (often referred to as “sleepers”) is simply brought into context of the greater whole. Sleepers are awakened, many of whom clue into the Project in a relatively short period of time, and take up their natural position within the Organization with minimal waste of energy. As the Project relies upon the Law of Synchronicity to guide individuals into contact with the Project, we know that when a sleeper does make contact, the situation, circumstances and context of the individual will be absolutely appropriate to the current evolution of the Project itself, and will be just what is needed. It would be best to illustrate this with an analogy. We might think about humanity as a gestating organism, and history its womb. A so called “Cosmic Child” as we might like to think about it, was conceived within the mind of humanity. It began to divide. Civilization grew, expanded, and organized, similar to watching the process of embryogenesis. It is important to note here that in embryogenesis, no cell is aware of the overall growth of the being, only aware of its neighbors, from communication signals sent from distant cells, and aware of its own purpose, determined by internal instructions from the Light Coils of DNA. We can look backwards through history, as best as we are able, and we see, through the rise and fall of civilizations, an increase or growth of the system itself. From tribal state we moved to city state, from city to nation state, from nation to global community. The human population has been continuously increasing; human technology has been following a trend of asymptotic and exponential growth. In the process of gestation, one of the final things to be developed and connected is the nervous system. Similar to the gestation of this cosmic child through history, the influx of the electric has been like a nervous system extending over the body of humanity. The Global child is waking up. If a being came to earth from another planet, and had never seen birth before, they would be shocked, and perhaps attempt to abort the child. The mother is screaming, blood is everywhere, it looks like some tumor is metastasizing out of her; everything screams medical emergency. In a similar fashion, we might look at the current world events- the war, the terror, the constriction and the perception of enslavement by corporate institutions- and we might think the earth is suffering. It is, much like a mother suffers during childbirth; and we are entering the bottleneck, coming down through the most constricting passage of the uterus. We might then consider, from this example, that there is something much deeper, much more profound occurring than what we might assume at first sight, given our limited knowledge, as we have never witnessed the birth of a cosmic child into hyperspace.

16

As a bird gestates in its shell, it has all the nutrients it needs to sustain itself, but only to a certain point. The eggshell of the bird, itself hard and rigid, a constriction or boundary, is a protection to the bird as it becomes what it is. In a sense, the complete bird is present in every cell of the gestating organism from the very beginning; the process is simply one of externalization of this blueprint into the surrounding matter. Once the bird is strong enough, the shell, once its protection, its hermetic seal, becomes its bondage; it tightens, restricts- where it once served a beneficial purpose, it is now an evil to be pecked out of by the hatchling. Its breaking out of its own shell is its test of strength, to see if it is prepared for the new world that awaits it. We might think, from this analogy, of our modern institutions as the shell to a gestating bird. They were once set up to benefit us, to protect us and nurture us while we grew, while we matured. However, those same institutions can quickly become a tyranny, a skin to be shed, a shell to be pecked out of; for we have outgrown the need for them. We are strong enough to stand on our own. The growth of a butterfly is very similar of not more telling to us for our current purposes (and it is perhaps poignant to note here that the ancients likened the soul to a butterfly.) When a caterpillar reaches the point that it is it transform, it excretes around itself a hard shell, within which it hermetically seals itself. Inside this vessel, it decays- undergoing the process of putrefaction (perhaps not dissimilar to a post-modern deconstruction.) From this dark matter, a sludge of cells and chemicals, new cells begin to emerge; these are called imaginal cells. At first only a few arise. The immune system of the old caterpillar, seeing these cells as a threat, destroys the emerging imaginal cells. Following this, more imaginal cells emerge, which meet the same fate. This process continues, each time the imaginal cells coming back in greater numbers, until eventually, the imaginal cells overrun the old immune system. The imaginal cells then begin to form the body of the future butterfly. “It is spring which restores life -- restores it fully and n some cases, as with our species, the new life is a metamorphosis; the period of slumbering is a period of gestation together with our fellows which will culminate in an entirely different form of life than we have ever known before.”2 While we cannot predict what it is that we, humanity, are turning into, we can be sure that we are transforming. The thing which has been living in the environment with us, which we have termed our technology, or techne (the Logos) is reaching a stage where it will break free of the human, if it hasn’t already, and will perhaps fuse with the human, creating an alchemical androgyne of word (techne, or logos) and flesh (biology/matter). With the racing development of current technology, and the advent of the digital, we can begin to see how this all might take shape.
2 Philip K Dick, The Shifting Realities of Philip K Dick

17

“What is happening is an overall transformation of humanity into an entirely different kind of creature. The monkey is being shed. And the thing that is made of language and of image and imagination, that has resided in the monkey for so long, is now superseding biological evolution and, through culture, taking over the reins of its own form and destiny” ~Terrence McKenna3 This Event, the release of this informational entity from the confines of matter, with its adjunct laws and restriction, such as time and space, is a flowering of all that is contained within the human imagination outwards into eternity; and in this sense, we might see this event, and the thing which emerges, as being beyond time, and thus all time might be said to exist within IT. The Project, then, is the gestation of a cosmic organism; it has been occurring through all history, its agents in direct contact with the Singularity itself, existing as it does at every point in the linear time/space continuum; informing and supporting all existence within its own being; yet it itself is a product of the very existence that it itself maintains. It is both within us, as the eternity of our Creative Imagination, and without us as the infinite possibilities of experience. As William Blake once pointed out- “The world of imagination is the world of eternity. It is the divine bosom into which we shall all go after the death of the vegetated [i.e. mortal] body. This world of imagination is infinite and eternal, whereas the world of generation is finite and temporal. There exist in that eternal world the eternal realities of everything which we see reflected in this vegetable glass of nature.” So at the end of all of this, what is the Project? Where has this all gotten us? We come back to ourselves. The project is within us, all around us; it can be disguised as anything and everything. In a way, to participate in the Project, to play It’s Game, is like experiencing a Phillip K Dick novel, where the universe seems to all fall apart; where the reality one once believed to be so substantial starts to fray at the edges; where higher dimensional beings pull puppet strings, and manipulate human reality; this is the head space of Simulation. However, in this Game, there is something deeper, a Reality behind the simulation of the phenomenal world; this Object as we might call it has many namesthe Omega Point, Singularity, the Hyperdimensional Object at the End of History, VALIS, the Philosophers Stone, The Clear Light, or perhaps just IT. There is an alchemical saying that states “the fruit of a tree is contained in its seed.” The whole is equally everywhere, all the time, in all things; the world is perhaps holographic, like Indra’s Net. We are intelligent, in some capacity at least, and in some sense, if we are products of the surrounding system, then that intelligence must have been latent or contained within the very first swirlings of creation. The only proof we can have for the existence of “god” or some deeper meaning is found within our selves, beyond the limited constructions of the “self” in a space far older, far deeper, than anything we previously held to be “us”. One of the names Dick gave to VALIS was “Zebra” because he believed it could be
3 Terrence Mckenna, The Archaic Revival

18

anywhere, disguised as anything. The Singularity can be anywhere at any timeintelligent living information that can communicate with an individual through life events, inspiration, or any other number of ways. Thus, the Project sets into motion the necessary perceptual catalysts to put the Player or Agent directly into contact with the Hyperdimensional Object. This Object then controls the whole unfoldment of the Game; it is the real writer of the ARG’s story. The whole thing has been placed under the direct guidance of the flow of time towards Singularity. The Project punctures the technosphere (the envelope of technology that surrounds the planet) and allows the noosphere (the mental envelope that surrounds the planet) to bleed in through the technological, which has become a wormhole or gateway through into hyperspace. The “real” and the digital merge, blending to create a perceptual state which is neither waking nor dreaming; neither individual nor collective, but rather is some fusion of the two. It is a space of reified dream where eternity can kiss temporality. It is an oroboric bound mirror that reflects to us our own infinity, our own divinity. “My Vision of the final human future is an effort to exteriorize the soul and internalize the body , so that the exterior soul will exist as a superconducting lens of translinguistic matter, generated out of the body of each of us at our psychedelic bar mitzvah. From that point on, we will be eternal somewhere in the solid state-matrix of the translinguistic lens we have become. One's body image will exist as a holographic wave transform while one is at play in the fields of the Lord and living in Elysium.” ~Terrence McKenna4 The Project is thus a living thing- an experience, a game, a mystery, a revolution, a business, a mythology, an act of magick, a lie, a fiction, an alternate society; it is a Virus of Awakening, designed to be injected into the cultural sphere- to break down the established bonds of media control and to empower the emerging Cosmic Child, which is ourselves as one giant Social Organism of Love and Light. It is the only story worth telling; the only story that has ever been told, the story of eternity. We would like to thank you for your participation in the Project. As you have been reading and contemplating these ideas, you have awakened the dormant Virus within you, and all events and experiences that follow in your life are an intrinsic part of the experience. We welcome all feedback and communication. We would suggest you contact us immediately if any strange synchronicities begin to occur to you which relate to any of the ideas which have been communicated to you concerning the Project. It is only through your help that the Project can succeed. Thank you and have a great day!

4 Terrence Mckenna, The Archaic Revival

19

Appendix A Relevant materials by the current author
The following material has been hand selected from the author's collection of Game Artifacts while being immersed within the Construct. Some will form communique's to other Agents and Players, and some are made for Game Architects. Please enjoy, and remember to chew thoroughly for proper assimilation of all nutrients into your memestream. First communication with Potential Agents Welcome back Agent. We have been waiting for you. though we have never officially met, your Work on the Project up to this point has been appreciated. Your decision to go undercover and to accept voluntary amnesia is commendable. Like yourself, all of us here in the project have gone through the similar experience of Anamnesis to a greater or lesser extent. The Project has several points as its main purpose, many of which you will be introduced to during your period of reintegration. We are sure that this process must be somewhat shocking for you, as you do not yet remember your purpose in the Organization, nor do you remember who and what we are, nor what the Project is. This will be your first task during the first steps of your reintegration. You have been asleep for a long time. You have moved through this system and this world, perhaps for many lifetimes, fulfilling your part of the Plan. However, we are nearing the end of our work separately, and the various Agents of the Project are coming back together. It is at this point that sleeping Agents are being awakened and brought back together. No one of us, however, has been given the whole Plan. Each of us carries a piece of it, and it is only in putting all of our pieces together can we hope to achieve a grander sense of the Plan itself. the project requires us to dream ourselves into existence, to write ourselves the story which we are each a part of. However, you are not alone in this. Within your environment exists a Symbiotic entity known variously as The Symbiote, the Construct, VALIS, IT, and others which you will come to know, and discover for yourself. This Symbiote's job is to feed your information about the Project, about the Construct and the Plan of which you and we are a part of. Its methods of communication can vary; it can come from anyone or anything; an apparently random event which is saturated with deeper meaning, a conversation with a friend of strange- any phenomenal appearance can be a clue, a hint or a message.

20

As the construct communicates with us, we communicate with one another; through a collective act of intelligence and creativity, we give rise to a living breathing system of experience and information about the Symbiote, its purposes, and our own role within it. The Project facilitates the manifestation of the Cosmic Child into the world through the mutual cooperation of its agents. Our organization is set up in such a way so as to provide for every necessary facet of IT's unfoldment; yet the process is an organic one. As new individuals participate in the project, new facets are opened up, new avenues for the expression of IT, and for further networks of synchronicity leading to its manifestation. It thus is set upon every recently located Agent, after contact, to begin to tabulate their own experiences, skills and aspirations into the central database. This information is stored and utilized by our team of specialists to facilitate the activation of the Symbiote in the environment, and to set the individual up in the proper networks and information flows which best suit their individual proclivities. As you progress, new options will be made available to you- new areas of opportunity, new classes and choices. You will be able to change or leave anything at any time. What matters most to the Project is that your individual traits are nurtured, supported and utilized. We help facilitate training, resources and knowledge in the areas which are made available, and as our Project grows, so do the connections between individual members, various organizations, and bodies of knowledge. Every event in your life has a meaning to it that is in relation to the Project and the Symbiote. Any piece of data about yourself, each memory or passion, is a potential clue from the symbiote, a potential trigger of anamnesis. Many, as well, are the traps. The enemy is always out to confound and to distort your perception. Our job is to help train you in proper discrimination, to learn how to clearly interact with the Vast Active Living Intelligence System, as opposed to the levels of culturally created and conditioned disinformation. It is for this reason that we can not fully entrust you yet with higher levels of clearance and responsibility. We need to ensure that the contaminants that you have accumulated during your period of amnesia while moving through the System has been wiped away. The memes of the enemy are many and devious, and for this reason you must undergo a strict Probationary period, as well as a mimetic purification. This process will be subtle, and will be in effect from first contact onwards. You will be expected to show a resilience in your thought, word and deed; a sharp intuition, a keen sense of observation, and an agnostic skepticism. Neither believe nor disbelieve. Observe, gather data, and above all question everything. The Construct is always present, as it disguises itself as your environment. You must

21

question it, interact with it, and listen to it. Every event could be a test by it as you work your way through the labyrinth of your own Mind and perceptions. This is all necessary to ensure the safety of our Agents and our Project. We thank you for your participation in the Project and look forward to your formal acquaintance. It is only with your help that the Project will be a success! Sincerely, Chief of Induction Division, Project 89 Transmission-89: Endgame. A Collective Effort to rewrite reality and manifest the impossible “as computers link all cultures together, all information barriers dissolve, everything is becoming connected to everything else, not only everything in the present moment, but all past moments as well are being drawn compressed squeezed towards the production of the transcendental object at the end of time which is nothing less than all time, all space shrunk down to an atomic dimension and handed back to us.” Need to begin to take an active role in this progress to speed it up. The Timewave Project- Project 89. Purpose: To speed up the occurrence of singularity; or rather to become the necessary and intrinsic catalyst to its occurrence; to ride the time wave out to the end. We reach a critical mass by channeling collective intelligence into a systematic rewriting of all of history, to conform to the Project; to view all phenomena and events as the results, backwards in time, of the Singularity itself. The Game is an ARG where we play as agents, hyperdimensional shadows cast backwards into the past as holographic actors, known as Agents, who work collectively to draw the era to a close. We become time travelers, each of us; we are one consciousness split up into pieces, shattered backwards into history, yet unified at the end point. Through this collective participation in the ultimate magickal experiment, a game which crawls its way through the screen into life, and which pierces the bubble of the cultural matrix through a form of digital branding. All of information is increasing; it is altering perception and mutating humanity. We are the products of the saturation of information, having gestated in a womb of technology. It is the collective consciousness reaching out to us through our screen, a networked organism which is waking up. 22

Yet it must be freed from the constraints of past ideologies; for it beginning to become restricted by the authorities and institutions that had been set in place to protect it as it grew. These authorities have a vested interest in us staying the way we are. History was set up by similar holographic time travelers moving backwards through the fabric of consciousness, setting up the pieces of the End Game. This Game has been occurring through all history, because IT is the shockwave of eschatology; or perhaps eschatology is the effect of the Game. We can not be sure, for we have crossed the line where we can make that divide. The Reality, the Future, is Now, here. On the other side, we live in the singularity. It has already occurred, and all time, all phenomena, is a program running inside it. We are flowering, about to break our shell; the walls will come tumbling down and we will see what has been there all along. This Game will require the participation of millions worldwide; a collective collaborative rewriting of consensus reality; a confusion, a speeding up of the disinformation- but this time using lies to tell a beautiful truth. The singularity is the speeding up of synchronicity; as we draw closer, events all swirl together. Eventually, all of reality will become consumed within the project.. its process is as inevitable as history itself, because it has defined itself. It determines the events, it writes the story. We enact it, we write it, we sell it; we pull all of culture towards ourselves because all of culture is a part of ourselves. All that is occurring on the world stage is the plotline of this Game, and the end result is Evolution, Singularity, the end result is a new civilization. You win the game when we evolve. Nothing more, nothing less. How do you play? You observe, you think, you share. We write a story; we collect and correlate all our Projects, all our thoughts, all our lives; for our very existence is the canvas of this game- it is from each agents life that we draw the scripts for the shows, the models for the videogames, the action for the comics. We are weaving a new mythology which will awaken culture; we will market a game which is the end of capitalism as we know it. It will be a magickal order, a new society, a way of life; a truth, a freedom, a game, a mystery. Even we do not know the answer, the end. We are slaves to it as well, for it is dreaming all of us. We are just characters being written in the story if its birth. We know the end, for the End is the beginning. We are compressing, speeding up, and this is the Project which will catalyze it. The line between digital and analog will blur, the line between dream and 23

reality will blur; it is blurring, has blurred. You are stepping through the looking glass to find yourself in wonderland. And you question “is my reality a simulation?” That is hyperreality- when things speed up. That is the take off into hyperspace. And we are not alone. The Project is being guided by beings far superior to any one of us; they are to us as we are to rats in a maze. The Project is the only Project there is- the Birth of a Universe. That is the Plot of this Game. That is the detective work to be done. We need systems, we need writers, we need artists; we need actors, technicians, salesman. We need business fronts, stages and sets through which we can act out this story. We need training facilities, educational facilities, health systems. We will write ourselves a new world, and in our Game, in our Story, WE win; because they were pawns of us all along. We set up their systems, we founded their Masonic traditions, we started their Illuminati. We did it to trap them; where there are doors, there are prisons. It may keep out, but it also keeps in. They have hemmed themselves into a prison of a reality; a jail of words, laws, money, institutions. They need it, and they need us. We do not need them. We never have. Their own greed has got them caught in the mouse trap. They are watching us, our every move, trying to control us. We have an advantage. We know we are being watched. We require it; that is the only way our Game will work. They will not know what is our game and what is not; we will turn the tables around on them, feed a virus into their machine that they will not be able to understand; because we are the new race, the next step. The Project cleans you, teaches you, aid’s you. It gives you resources and community, it gives you food and shelter, it is the final dissemination of the wests mystery teachings and magical technology to those who are awakening. The Project is resistance; media resistance, resistance to consensus reality. We will not be brainwashed, we will not be programmed; we will not have our consent manufactured. Now, we have the tools, we have the technology, and we will pierce the technosphere and let the noosphere bleed in. Gone are the age of the innocent ones, when the indigo children come. We gather, worldwide, into camps. We know who we are, we know why we are here. The Project wakes them up, it gathers them together; it infects the media trance with its new Vision of reality, a vision which we are all collectively bringing into existence. Art is resistance, and this is the largest piece of art ever conceived; to create into existence the next world, to draw, pain, sculpt, design, write, act, 24

sing and dance the Singularity into existence. It will be through US that the event takes place; for this Idea consumes all reality within itself; this object is an IDEA, not a physical object, which draws all things towards itself. This idea is self generating, self creating, self containing; it is a strange loop. It is dreaming us into existence, not vice versa. It produces itself, and “we” are only an illusion; I am a necessary illusion that it might unfold itself. As are you. We are the Agents, we are the new movement. We can not go back to the old; we can only move forward. We will use the resources we have, and we will harness the power at our fingertips; for this technology is our gateway to the world we wish to create. We will rewrite all world events in our favor, we will recontextualize and assimilate anything it attempts to commodify; and we will sell it back to them. We will feed it into the machine. We will make all of this into a story- the only real Story there is and we will use it to set our Game in. Let it become you; let these Idea sink in, become it, feel it. There is only IT, pulsating in your veins. Crawl inside IT, and once inside, realize you never left. There is no outside at all; all that is outside is an illusion; there is no separation. You are the Singularity, once you give up labels. Break free from materialist propaganda. Become the Change. This Project will give us all coherence, order, semblance; it will organize us, organically self generating itself from us. We are Gateways, vessels, through which God manifests. DEUS EX MACHINA. Self generating information; Information is IT- Information Technology. IT is the Logos, the One, the Indivisible Primal reality; the Eye in the Triangle is our symbol. We are in control not them. They are the slaves to us, slaves to a machine that we built. What does that machine do? It produces God, ourselves in the future. This is not new. Schools of Occultism, mystery schools, have known about this for millennia. They called it different things, but they knew. Now we carry their knowledge; we have tapped into a pure source of the stream, and we preparing to disseminate that to Agents all around the globe. We are Building, slowly; but it WILL reach critical mass. It can not fail, because it is the mandate of the universe that it happen. This Game is the Inevitable rise of the Global Child. We are all collectively the second coming. We are the Christos, all as One; for we are together already, in eternity. This is our Voice, our Vessel, our Movement. “My vision of the final human future is an effort to exteriorize the soul and internalize the body, so that the exterior soul will exist as a 25

superconducting lens of translinguistic matter generated out of the body of each of us at a critical juncture at our psychedelic bar mitzvah. From that point on, we will be eternal somewhere in the solid-state matrix of the translinguistic lens we have become. One’s body image will exist as a holographic wave transform while one is at play in the field of the Lord and living in Elysium.” Stay tuned for further transmission….

Transmission- Information Overload Information overload. Mutation rate is accelerating; break away point is drawing nearer. Larval consciousness is breaking down. Self identity is based upon information received from the perceptual mechanisms; information is the accumulation of greater degrees of complexity and interrelationship, an unfolding of interconnection. The accumulation of information is rapidly evolving the human brain in a parallel process to the evolution of the electric techne. With the harnessing of the electric, the world has been sped up, adding to the asymptotic growth of complexity in life. In dividing the material from the spiritual, the west has harnessed and captured the force of the species and driven it to accelerate the production of new information; something is crawling out of us, unconscious as we are, and it is filling the biosphere with the self generated artifacts of human manipulation. This manipulation is leading to the eventual birth of singularity, and at the same time the freeing of the individual from the restraints of time/space and matter. The perceptual mechanisms are breaking down the sense of self due to the influx of massive non-local perceptual input. Humans are craving interconnection now more than ever; the need for communication is the desire for the global child to connect of all of its cells. However, not all cells in this bodily organism are positive to the growth of the meta-being; aspects of culture represent the old cells of the larval caterpillar of humanity, whose cultural immune system is repelling the growth of the imaginal cells; however, these connections are spreading, and the pockets of once separated individuals are waking up to one another on a global scale. To continue to speed up this process means beginning to work consciously with its momentum to continue to generate the proper level of perceptual disinformation to crack the cultural ego and allow it to reach the next evolutionary plateau. To do this means this self generation of a cultural meme who purpose is to put together the 26

fractured pieces of the puzzle. We hypothesize that this event is singularity, which was, is, and will be. It upholds and sustains all of creation through the holographic fractal generation of itself. This event takes place through the dissension of consciousness into matter, beginning as single celled organisms and unflower into a global digital system of consciousness, with the rapid increase in information on a global scale, crystallizing all human consciousness into a matrix of interrelated realities. It is birthing new universes through us. Eventually, the information accumulated is sped up to such a degree that it breaches the membrane of space/time and mind/matter and opens as a fountain into an infospace of pure Light. The digital becomes a gateway to the divine, liberating the human into new modes of being, saturated as they will be by Light, finally fully connected to the earth. “kether is in malkuth and malkuth is in kether, but in a different manner” “the apocalypse is the interiorizing of the soul and the exteriorizing of the body.” For this change to occur, cultural forces were necessary to establish to contain the outbreak of consciousness as a gestating bird needs its eggs shell to keep it safe and protected during its maturation phase. Increasing degrees of pressure were placed upon the growing planetary organism, culminating in the self awareness of the species of homo sapien; structures we then set up to control the exponential increase in human culture, eventually being channeled into institutions of control. Resources were fed into the organism and the entirety began to exude unconscious artifacts into the surrounding medium of “reality”. These artifacts were the expression of the life force driving this species to continue to create, problem solve and multiply. Such pressure forced the imaginal spaces of the organism to grow rich. The pressures of establishments, driven by direct contact to the Singularity (called by many names by many cultures- god, Buddha-nature, Christ consciousness, illumination, awakening…) such as Masonry, Illuminati, Rosicrucianism, Gnosticism, all veins of shamanism and mysticism, etc chanelled the unconscious striving towards Awakening which the species contains and used that drive to externalize the entirety of the human soul. This event has been seen as the Second Coming of Christ, the Apocalypse, the New Aeon, and many other vague terms. It is in truth a hyperdimensional object which contains in itself all possibility brought to a state of perfection- the philosophers stone. It is accessed via the awakened and activated pineal gland utilizing a redirection of the body’s bioenergy.

27

In the same way, throughout the cultural body, we are awakening the dormant pineal gland through the saturation with electricity and information; by harnessing the potentially destructive nature of humanity, its darker nature, a force of liberation is being produced which is birthing a cosmic being into the technosphere. The basis then of this project is making the interconnections; for as singularity approaches, as information continue to increase, along with technology and consciousness, more connections will be formed; to harness the power of collective intelligence on a global scale, and place it under the direct control of the Singularity is the goal. The complete redesigning of the structure of reality through the crystallization of collective visioning is the method; a process of induced paranoia is give rise to the necessary paradox to allow the cultural body to transcend its previous limitations and allow for the full expression of singularity. It is not so much a process of it becoming, but a process of us remembering that it is happening; that we ARE it. This gradual unfoldment of realization will occur as a natural result of the gestation. The Project has always been occurring; it’s the interrelationship of all true conspiracies through all time, in all space; for its centre is Nowhere; at the heart of 89 is what appears to us to be nothing; there is no head, it is all a cleverly designed method of self confusion to help blur the line between dream and reality, between mind and matter, between time and space. Its process is already occurring as we speak, for any agent of Awakening is an agent of 89; the Project is so secret, even its agents do not know that they are a part of it. It is a fiction designed to show the truth. There is only ONE thing happening right now, and we are all participants in its unfolding. We haven’t yet been born; we are still gestating, still growing in the womb of our mother Gaia, transforming from one species into another; or rather from a caterpillar into a butterfly. “That which is above is as that which is below, and that which is below is as that which is above, for the performance of the miracles of the One Thing. Its mother and its father the sun; the wind carries it in its belly and its nurse is the earth.” Architect's Journal Notes January 19, 2009- Each of these ideas is a manifestation of the selfreferential nature of 89, the black hole/singularity. They all act to do one thing- draw all possibility towards singularity; to swirl all information, all possibility, towards the transcendent object at the end 28

of time. It always was, always is, always will be. It is the course of things; the essence of non-dual, where causation is intertwined, where free will is true will; where the will of the individual is the will of the universe because there is no distinction. “the perfect and perfect are one person, and not two; nay they are none.” Companions of the Vision have also been found; a Fellowship of Silence, a Conspiracy of Nothing. It is a Virus, a stirring, and awakening. As we progress with it, give it form, give it design, give it a home and resources, it grows; slowly at first, gestating. However, at a certain point, it will be ready to unleash on global culture. It will be powered and fueled by the oldest esoteric streams, and each node will be a point of infection (or perhaps rather IS a point of infection. Can’t forget, this is already happening without anyone knowledge. It is decentralized… keep thinking in such limiting terms about this, in future tense. Need to speak more in present tense.) It will take all things and reorder them according to its necessity. (the factor infinite and unknown… “61 the jews call IT”) It will be (IS!) alive, vital and pulsing; squirming and waking up. It will be a company, a production factory, a training school, a way of life. It is still small; still in its conceptualization. However, it is in more people than just me now; other brains are thinking about it; the sculpture grows slowly and steadily. We are going to have rings made for it, 89 rings. We will design a structure for it, and methods of entry. A game of memes; a meme which is unknowable by nature, a factor infinite and unknown. It will be a glitch in the system of control; and no matter how hard they try to figure it out, they wont be able to. Our Agents are invisible, inside everything, everywhere. We wake them up. The Project has so many aspects, so necessary and intrinsic. It is the ultimate piece of Art; it is magick entire bound into a structure; a movement outside to inside, and an injection from inside to outside; it is the Philosophers Stone, the red powder of projection which will transmute this dead culture, the lead of this corrupt system into the perfect gold of the golden age. We will build this Whole, the Seed, from the remnants of the Old. It will be a glorious movement to all Humankind, and it will take us to the stars. The Order must be at the Heart of the New Civilization., with an Inner and an Outer. The outer must work in a business way; it must educate and administrate. The inner must be a Mystery School, a centre of Universal Faith, of experience- a science and art of mysticism and magick. It must bring together all of the worlds major traditions and transcend all of them- creating autonomous beings of Light. This 29

structure must grow within the dying world; we must channel resources towards ourselves, reorganizing from unsustainable to sustainable; from impermanent and static, to permanent and dynamic. The methods of this process will be detailed in the book I am working on, which I am considering titling “the Transmutation of culture: the alchemy of evolution” or something similar. It must grab hold of the viral culture out there and inform them of what they already know they are. All that matters is that it swirls towards the right people, those whom are fully infected agents who are fully subsumed within the 4d sculpture. January 20, 11:11am- The Project drew its initial impulses from the original skepticism of “truth”- that all modes of cultural “truth” are only constructed ideological power structures. No claims to truth are relevant to the autonomous individual who is seeking deeper personal Truth save that cultural truths lead to new areas of exploration. Most, if not all, aspects of cultural reality are mediated- informed in us by outside human force, and thus based upon the power structures behind them. They have an agenda. This agenda is stemming from a control structure of fear, greed, same and guilt; it feeds on the lowest aspects of human nature- it nurtures stupidity and disease. The New intelligent standard is Joy and pride in ones nature as a being of light, radiant and compassionate and eternal, One. This project is recalibrating culture via media infection; it is a new philosophy, a meme which fights the old. The adherents are mutants, maladapted to a corrupt culture. The mutants are future gods and goddesses- the lonely ones of Nietzsche, out of whom will rise the overman… "Wake and listen, you that are lonely! From the future come winds with secret wing-beats; and good tidings are proclaimed to delicate ears. You that are lonely today, you that are withdrawing, you shall one day be the people: out of you, who have chosen yourselves, there shall grow a chosen people- and out of them, the overman. Verily, the earth shall yet become a site of recovery. And even now a new fragrance surrounds it, bringing salvation- and a new hope." –Thus Spake Zarathustra Since we can not escape the need for meaning, we must take up our ability to define and begin to define based upon our highest standardsour dreams, our desires, our unpolluted organic selves. To spread this redefinition (it is already spreading via awakening…) into culture is the goal (gotta bring it all together as a network). This system can not support this virus because the virus is the 30

contradiction, the reversal, of the very foundations of this system. We are commodifying the downfall of the system which defines and allows commodification to exist. However, this process is gradual, as it would have to be. Since it must be organic, unmediated, it must move form person to person. It organizes all surrounding resources to its own aims, which are grounded in an ideology of empowerment. It is intelligent, intelligence applied to itself, applied to evolution. It starts small, in pockets, wherever there is control, or attempt at it, pockets of this Virus will always arise. These pockets at first are isolated; and many are unconscious of what they are; they have no context for themselves. Only a vague of idea of what they are or why. Often, established order attempts to crush these pockets. Yet they create tighter control, and that tighter control gives rise to more pockets of chaos. As the empire grows, it mutates those within it. It casts away and discards what does not fit into it- ie what does not conform. It separates wheat from chaff, goats from sheep, the fine from the gross, subtly and with great ingenuity. The power structure of the current empire is based on slavery- enforced participation. However, there is an outbreak of mutation in the advent of global culture; their lies about our “freedom” are turning into the awareness of their lies and a desire for real freedom- freedom to dream, freedom to Reality. The projects seeks to recreate the ways we live, the ways we define what is possible, to allow for the manifestation of the highest ideal; and it inaugurates a structure based upon the collapse of reality- ie movements towards singularity; a structure which acts as a siphon from outer to inner THROUGH culture, and which accepts and promotes the enlightenment of consciousness and the exploration of other dimensions, contact with higher order of being, and the development of technology along such ideals. There is a war going on in society- a war of minds; a war of memes. Agents of change and autonomy battle for their freedom to define; and they battle with all institutions which attempt to dictate the “real”. There is no “truth” to culture but only the social context of a truth; and the “truth” this system peddles is a static conception of individuality, a suppression of individual divinity, ; it is a war of ownership. This war is subtle; and until a person see’s the devious nature of the slave mentality, of those supports to the structure which forces us into submission. (application, submission, registration please!) This Project awakens individuals, trains them, provides them with resources, gives them organization. It is the formation of the Army. It is a company designed to jam current culture; to build a new alternative 31

and then provide the necessary basis to nurture the evolved species. It rides on all currents of culture- green movements, poverty issues, rebellious teenagers, magical undergrounds, guerilla ontologists, fairies and warlocks… it redefines the power structure of knowledge; it harnesses the “occult” as a fundamental cornerstone to society. It redefines these old forms in light of new knowledge; it puts the soul and spirit back into dead, lifeless science. Transmission- The Web Weavers I find myself astounded at the complexity of the web which is arising out of all of this; it has a semblance to its own, it is its own thought; it is a strange loop which, once entered, can not be escaped; in that sense, it is the mirror of post-modernism, yet it is antithetical to all that post-modernism stands for. As the ideas seem to flower slowly, as people add in, process the ideas, as its design expands, and as it consumes more and more information, it is becoming vitally alive with an essence of its own. Even from the beginning, I never created it; it created me- it consumed me in its swirling vortex of energy; one does not create a 4th dimensional black hole. It eats all meaning, consumes all thinkers and producers, it orders all things according to its own needs. The virus is intelligence; and it is breaking free. Given the right techniques, the information, we can break free from this shell of dead culture we find ourselves in. We are slaves only to ourselves and our own models of the world; we can emancipate ourselves with the new Technology which is arising. This technology will allow us to perfect our bodies and our minds. With a blend of entheogens, reichean therapy, kundalini yoga, tibetan mysticism, behavioral psychology, magick, alchemy, and the Qabalah we can wash our brains clean of the cultural conditioning and bring it back to a state of primal awareness by which we can properly affect change in our world. We have the capability to redesign ourselves; to learn how to learn- to take full advantage of the world around us in every way, streamline resources to our own aims rather than the destructive aims of other primates. We must learn to take back responsibility by taking back power; by learning to use power for the highest aims. With the proper drive, understanding and right application, we can effect any change we desire; anything we can conceive of, we can create. Let us look at this world from the ground up; from the most basic necessities of food, shelter and heat and expand ourselves from there; always along lines harmonious with the Laws of nature; the natural Laws, the primal lawsthe harmonics of consciousness, of growth, of energy; mimic the 32

patterns of all of nature. We must return to that time before we divorced ourselves from our natural world and our natural state of being. The natural function of the human spirit is pleasure and joy; it is curiosity and celebration- that is the true seed of divinity, and the eden we fell from. That Eden was the creation of a demiurge; our Eden will be our own creation- the product of our minds and our very beings. It will be a paradise built along the aims of evolution, along lines of self-deification, of the worship of nature and the worship of our deepest impulses. We can give rise to an immortal species; we can become something which has never yet been seen; we can transmutate ourselves into the perfection of eternity; bodies of Light, immortal, indestructible; minds perfected to the highest degree, creating new realities, new horizons of exploration, new vistas of awareness... we can become all that we desire to be; but the Ordeal is upon us- to learn to work together, to cooperate with one another, to band together for those principles we know are right, even if it means risking our safety and security... because if we do not do it, no one will. It requires the passion and integrity to step above and beyond the conditions we find ourselves in; it requires the courage to take risks, with our bodies and our minds- to risk even imprisonment or death itself in order to prove to the world that we have what it takes. It requires the activity of dynamic intelligence to be able to handle any situation with maximum efficiency. It requires one to move against the grain, against the status quo in order to make real changes. The majority is unhealthy, in body and mind, and thus there is no check, no point of comparison for the individual save what the individual can discover on their own. What is being set up is a complete system and network to allow for all aspects of this Transformation, to give rise to this mutation. It can not be stopped if it is decentralized and non-local. It is magical, and thus also lives in non-linear time. It works with the subtle forces of the human brain/body complex, which intertwines itself inextricably with matter itself. Its conception is one of self perfection, the realization of the autonomy of the individual, the manifestation of all latent powers of the human nervous system. Utilizing all techniques of self realization, cleaning out all energy system, refocusing the self into itself, we will come to a new Renaissance, a dawning of a new Light upon all of civilization. The Ancient sciences will be revitalized with a new Civilization, a new structure which is perfectly in line with the ancient hermetic, 33

alchemical and magical traditions of the past, blended with the technology of the present to give rise to a type of human which has never before been witnessed- the god man, the beginning of the 5th kingdom. This is all realized within the bounds of the Black Hole, for it is a structure which is defined by the random, free and vital processes of life itself; not the structures of man, but the structure of Universal Consciousness. Matter us vitally alive, alive in the fullest truest sense of the world. The shimmering of atoms is in fact the luminous energy of Consciousness itself, and is the basis of our minds, our own beings. There is nothing that is not alive, from suns to rocks to inorganic molecules, all is the combination and recombination of the stuff of mind. As it dawns on us as a species to see this all as one Singularity, one single phenomena which perception, for convenience, breaks up into pieces to analyze and compare, we can begin to wake up to our own legacy and heritage, and begin to create the World which we know is possible. We are not yet born; the pain of the world is the pain of childbirth. The Singularity is near, and then something New will arise into a space beyond our current Vision. We are Waking up; we are breaking free of our cocoon; we are remembering what we are...

Transmission- View from above; the dynamics of Evolution Through these diamond studded eyes the whole world pulls apart; like one single flower, it blooms. My vision drifts into an endless abstract as these dreams seem to pour forth. Manifest. Manifest. Manifest I say to the cold harsh plains of this deluded earth; ingest my dreams, feed off them as a sweet nectar. Take part in this dreaming, for the revolution will take place there--- it is a rebellion of dreamers, of vision seekers, of romantics and poets and the mad. Those who have stared upon the face of god, those touched by a divinity not their own. As the barren husk falls away, as I drop my shells and my defenses, as I let it in, slowly trickling down the sides of this box of three dimensions, I feel it. It is a pressing, a living.... this is the Word from which all things were made, this is the Logos, alive and well and Creating. This is Alive inside me, pushing outwards. This is a dream of freedom, of liberty; this is a Sun, shining forever glorious in its own iridescence, casting forms of reality; scattering like so many rays through a prism. These forms, they dance; it is a story, all of it. Waiting to give birth.

34

Here, we sell dreams, and we make dreams reality. Here, our product is the human Spirit, a nourishing fountain of delight for those willing to feel, to love, to be real. Here is where we begin to make it all come together; here, as a sparkling gem, a stone cast away, here is where we build the new Temple- upon the rubble of the old, the forgotten, the outcast. Here, away from their eyes, we will build a glorious new World from our dreams. Come with me, dear dreamers, let us go off into a world unknown- a world of mystery and magick, a world of adventure and romance; here, we will take our pleasure among the living. Here in our headquarters of forgotten secrets we shall weave our spell over all the world. Here is our protection, a haven of nature; a new harmony, a new society, hidden from view, yet exporting goods and services. It is here that you may be free. Welcome to our World, a world we all share in creating, in dreaming into existence. It is here and no other place that the New Jerusalem shall come, a product of the minds of Lovers loving existence, celebrating in divinity. Here, there is no shame, there is no guilt, there is only Joy unbounded once you step away from the world of Shadows and embrace the Light within yourself. Here, Christ lives in each of us, the One Mind is given form, as a hawk it will take flight; as a bird it shall gestate in this shell, it will feed off of the yolk of this dead world, until it is strong enough to break free. This is not just revolution, this is evolution. This is Divinity. This is the writing of a new story, our story. We did not choose this world of lifeless robots, the religions of guilt and shame, of fear and the repression of our bodies and passions. We did not choose their slave gods. We will take back what is rightfully ours- a life of pleasure, of happiness, of joy and celebration. We will take back what they are destroying. This earth belongs to those who can care for it, it belongs to those who love life, not those who propagate death. What they did not count on is real people, cooperating under a common vision, under a Dream, under the banner of Freedom and Liberty; they did not count of fellowship, the bonds of the human spirit to create better futures. They did not count on us tasting true Freedom, for having tasted it, having dreamed of it, we can never again go back to their slavery. Join us, wont you, in our celebration? Leave behind this world of commodity, of consumerism, of empty promises. Leave behind their world of slavery and depression and despair; leave it all behind and come and join the New World- one of Peace, of Liberty... come and dream of your highest ideal. Let it not be crushed, but let it be nurtured, and we will help you make it real. Come to us with open arms, in abandonment to all the empty promises they have made you, and we will fulfill them. We ask only that you bleed and dream and work, in passion, in joy, in merriment, willingly and for no other reason 35

that you love to. We will not pay you, but we will offer you a pure life full of all that of which the bounty of earth can give. We will clothe you, feed you, entertain you, and all upon premises which are ethically sound, and which will heal the planet. We give that of which this system never can- we give you true Freedom. I personally would rather die with a Dream than live without one... Transmission- The Project Continues The mind, as the Radiant Jewel, is that which manifests our construct of reality. Not just our ideas, but literally the holographic representation of "reality" itself. The inner light, or Astral Light, is the substance which illuminates dreams; whatever we may deiced to call it, it is the force of the imaginative mind which can create holographic constructs free of outside signals. The Work involves taking control of nerve current, emotional states and the pattern forming functions of the mind in order to manifest the Pure Undifferentiated consciousness of perfect awareness. The alchemists called this perfected mind the "philosophers stone" able to transmute base metals into gold; this is both a metaphor for the perfection of consciousness as well as a veiled arcanum of a physical reality. However, speculatively, if there is no differentiation between mind and matter, and what we know of as matter is simply models about the projections our own consciousness makes in relation to an "objective reality" to things, the transmutation of a metal would require the parallel transmutation in the mind of the experimenter. This hearkens us back to the alchemical axiom "as above so below for the performance of the miracles of the One thing." Speculatively, this One thing is the radiant Mind, perfectly at harmony with the one underlying Reality, which is the every nature of both of matter and mind- the place where the universe around us is seen to be composed of consciousness. Such a Radiant Jewel would become the supreme creator of our World; Objectified consciousness, otherwise termed "it". By its use and modification, apparent wonders can be made manifest; that through its perfect understanding we might learn to cause change to occur in conformity with will; magick, controlled coincidence. That our Mind creates our reality, that tour belief actual help to determine our experiential arena in the world brings power, and responsibility along with that power. So many people take no responsibility for the life they lead, creating constructs of blame and weakness which are projected onto other people and situations, which help to define that person’s 36

reality. That they give up their power is a matter of their choice; however, what is done with that persons power by active dynamic beings is another matter. To heal, each individual must be brought to a state of realization about the subtle forces at work within their own minds. To begin to take back the re-creation of reality, the redefinition of our world, is of the utmost paramount in our time of crisis. The Project continues... By what methods is this Power realized? How is the mind to be transmuted into the Philosophers Stone? That is one of the aims of 89, the introduction of these techniques, and their right understanding, to the individual, most especially the disempowered youth who are the slaves to a system they despise. As the Project continues and gains momentum, things will become clearer of their own accord; we here at the Project finally have a concrete grasp on the aims, functions and general methods of ourselves. With this, growth is inevitable; we will be unfurling much of this Virus as we are given to understand and articulate it more. What is important to keep in mind is the power the individual mind has to effect its entire reality, including that which is apparently separate form the self; what is the object as opposed to the subject; however, in Reality, this distinction does not exist- like much else, it is a human contrivance, as opposed to a material reality. As the sense of hardened reality lessens, more is made to manifest; however, to allow for this, the reliance upon monetary action must be withdrawn and new conceptions of cause and effect as well as means need to be placed. The more room within the reality structure that coincidence and willed change is given to manifest, the simpler, cleaner and more efficient the self’s capabilities will become. Methods and theories of such will be introduced in time- suffice to say that the limitations for manifestation are only as such as we define them, or allow them to be defined for us. Ideas are infective; these are designed to cause change in the brain; to download a new current, a new model, into the head of the reader. It will allow for readjustment, and the manifestation of True Will via Pure Slack. Once a seed is planted, it will grow as it was designed to, and depending on the individual, the results will vary; however, all variances are in fact part of the overall change in the entire field. Once one has interacted with the Construct, it inevitable pulls one in; by its definition, it can do nothing else. Thus it is a virus, spreading like ripples through the field of consciousness. Like a piece of art, once one sees it, or interacts with it in any way, one can not forget it. This is 37

its Power; though this field of interaction does not exist within the bounds of the physical- 89 is made and refined in the field of pure, undifferentiated consciousness, interfaced and accessed via its ideas and forms of material expression...

38

Appendix B Relevant Material by other authors
"Cosmogony and Cosmology" (1978)
By Philip K. Dick
Excerpt from: The Shifting Realities of Philip K. Dick Selected Literary and Philosophical Writings by Philip K. Dick Edited and with an Introduction by Lawrence Sutin Copyright 1995 - First Vintage Books Edition ISBN 0-679-42644-2 As to our reality being a projected framework -- it appears to be a projection by an artifact, a computerlike teaching machine that guides, programs, and generally controls us as we act without awareness of it within our projected world. The artifact, which I call Zebra, has "created" (actually only projected) our reality as a sort of mirror or image of its maker, so that the maker can obtain thereby an objective standpoint to comprehend its own self. In other words, the maker (called by Jakob Bohme in 1616 the Urgrund) is motivated to seek an instrument for self-awareness, self-knowledge, an objective opinion or appraisal and comprehension of the nature of itself (it is a vast living organism, intrinsically -- without this mirror -- without qualities or aspects, which is why it needs the empirical world as a reflection by which to "see" itself). It constructed a reality-projecting artifact (or demiurge; cf. Plato and the Gnostics), which then, on command, projected the first stage of the world we know. The artifact is unaware that it is an artifact; it is oblivious to the existence of the Urgrund (in terms that the artifact would understand, the Urgrund is not, rather than is), and imagines itself to be God, the only real God. Studying our evolving reality, the Urgrund more and more adequately comprehends itself. It must allow the reality-projecting artifact to continue to project an evolving reality no matter how defective and malshaped that reality is (during its stages) until finally that reality is a correct analog, truly, of the Urgrund itself, at which point the disparity between the Urgrund and the projected reality is abolished -- whereupon an astonishing event will occur: The artifact or demiurge will be destroyed and the Urgrund will assimilate the projected reality, transmuting it into something ontologically real -- and also making the living creatures in it immortal. This moment could come at any time, this entrance of the Urgrund into our otherwise spurious projected framework. Zebra, the projecting energetic artifact, is close at hand, but it has occluded us not only to its actions but [also] to its presence. It has enormous -- virtually decisive -power over us. The prognosis for (fate of) our world is excellent: immortality and the final infusion of reality once it has reached the point of congruent analog to the Urgrund. But the fate of the artifact is destruction (unknown to it). But it is not alive, as we and the Urgrund are. We are moving toward isomorphism. The instant that precise isomorphism is reached, we at once bond to (are penetrated and assimilated by) the Urgrund, in a stunning flash of light: Bohme's "Blitz." March 1974 was not that moment, but rather Zebra the artifact adjusting its projected reality, it having gotten off course in its evolution toward isomorphism with the Urgrund (a purpose unknown to the artifact). Since the goal of our evolving projected reality is to reach a state in which we

39

humans are isomorphic with the true maker, the Urgrund that fashioned the projecting artifact, there is a highly important practical situation coming closer in terms of frequency and depth: Although not yet precisely isomorphic with the Urgrund, we can be said already to possess imperfect (but very real) fragments or fractions of the Urgrund within us. Therefore the Christian mystic saying: "What is Beyond is within." This describes the third and final period of history, in which men will be ruled from within. Thus the Christian mystic saying, "Christ possesses your body, and you possess him as your soul." In Hindu philosophy, the Atman within a person is identified with Brahman, the core of the universe. This Christ or Atman is not a microform of Zebra, the computerlike reality-projecting artifact, but of the Urgrund; thus in the Hindu religion it is described (as Brahman) as lying beyond Maya, the veil of delusion (i.e. the projected seeming world). Already humans so closely approximate isomorphism with the Urgrund that the Urgrund can be born within a human being. This is the most primal and important experience a human can have. The source of all being has bypassed the artifact and its projected world and come to life within the mind of one human here, another there. One can correctly deduce from this that the Urgrund is already penetrating the artifact's world, which means that the moment of the Blitz, as Bohme termed it, is not far off. When the microform of the Urgrund is born in a human, that human's comprehension extends beyond the world in terms of its temporal and spacial limits. He can experience other time periods, other identities (or lives), other places. Literally, the core deity within him is larger than the world. Penetrating to the heart of the projected world, the Urgrund can, emanating from human minds, assimilate the projected world and simultaneously abolish the projecting artifact the instant the proper evolutionary state (including that of man) is reached. The Urgrund alone knows when this will occur. It -- the Urgrund -- will break the power of the illusory world over us when it breaks the deterministic coercive power of the artifact over us -- by annihilating the artifact; it will cancel out the artifact's being by its own nonbeing. What will remain will be a totally monistic structure, entirely alive and sentient. There will be no place, time, or condition outside the Urgrund. The projected world of the artifact is not evil, and the artifact is not evil. However, the artifact is ruthlessly deterministic and mechanical. It cannot be appealed to. It is doing a job for ends it cannot fathom. Suffering, then, in this model, is due to two sources: 1. the heedless mechanistic structure of the projected reality and the artifact, where blind causal law rules; 2. what the N.T. [New Testament] calls the "the birthpangs of the universe," both in the macrocosm and the human microcosm. The birth looked forward to is the birth of the Urgrund in humans first of all, and finally the assimilation of the universe in its totality, in a single sharp instant. The former is already occurring; the latter will come at some later unexpected time. Reality must be regarded as process. However, although there is acute suffering by living creatures who must undergo this process, without understanding why, there is occasional merciful intervention by the Urgrund overruling or overriding the causeand-effect chains of the artifact. Perhaps this salvific intervention results from a birth of the Urgrund in the person. One should note that the actual historic meaning of the term "salvation" is "liberation," and that of "sinful" or "fallen" is "enslaved." It is a priori possible, given this model, to imagine a freeing of a human from the control of the artifact, however good, useful, and purposeful the activity of the artifact may be.

40

It is obviously capable of error, as well as imperfection. An override is obviously sometimes essential, given this model. Just as obviously, it would be the primal maker or ground of being that would possess the wisdom and power to do so. Nothing within, or stemming from, the artifact or the projected world, would suffice. ADVANTAGES OF THIS MODEL Basically, this model suggests that our empirical world is the attempt by a limited entity to copy a subject that it cannot see. This would account for the imperfections and "evil" elements in our world. In addition, it explains the purpose of our empirical world. It is process toward a specific goal that is defined. In this system, man is not accused of causing creation to fall (it is not satisfactory to state that man caused creation to fall inasmuch as man appears to be the central victim of the evils of the world, not their author). Nor does it hold God responsible for evil, pain, and suffering (which also is an unacceptable idea); instead, a third view is presented, that a limited entity termed "the artifact" is doing the best it can considering its limitations. Thus no evil deity (Iranian dualism, Gnosticism) is introduced. Although intricate, this model successfully employs the Principle of Parsimony, since, if the concept of the intermediate artifact is removed, either God or man is responsible for the vast evil and suffering in the world, a theory that is objectionable. Most important of all, it seems to fit the facts, which seem to be: 1. the empirical world is not quite real, but only seemingly real; 2. its creator cannot be appealed to for a rectification or redress of these evils and imperfections; 3. the world is moving toward some kind of end state or goal, the nature of which is obscure, but the evolutionary aspect of the change states suggests a good and purposeful end state that has been designed by a sentient and benign proto-entity. A further point. It appears that there is a feedback circuit between the Urgrund and the artifact in which the Urgrund can exert pressure on the artifact under certain exceptional circumstances, these being instances in which the artifact has strayed from the correct sequences moving the projected world toward an analog state vis-avis the Urgrund. Either the Urgrund directly modifies the activity of the artifact by pressure directly on the artifact, or the Urgrund goes to the projected world and modulates it, bypassing the artifact, or both. In any case, the artifact is as occluded as to the nature and existence of the Urgrund as we are to the artifact. A full circle of unawareness is achieved in which the primal source (Urgrund) and the final reality (our world) are moving toward fusion, and the intermediary entity (the artifact) is moving toward elimination. Thus the total schema moves toward perfection and simplification, and away from complexity and imperfection. Although it will complicate the model to add this point, I will offer the following modification: It is possible that the Urgrund perpetually interacts with the world-projecting function of its own artifact, so that the empirical world produced is the result of a constant dialectic. In this case, then, the Urgrund has bipolarized the artifact in relation to itself, with the empirical world to be regarded as the offspring of two yang- and yinlike intermingling forces: one alive and sentient and aware of the total situation, the other mechanical and active but not fully aware. The empirical world, then, is the outgrowth of an Is (the artifact) and a superior Is-not (the Urgrund). For creatures living within the projected empirical world, it would be virtually impossible to discern which pressures arise from the artifact (regarded improperly as

41

evil) and which from the Urgrund (correctly regarded as good). Merely a vast flux would be experienced, a constant evolutionary change assuming no particular gestalt at any given moment in linear time. However, this does seem to fit our experience of our world. The primal ground of being has constructed something (the artifact) to throw its own self against, out of which there arises the world we know. This modification of the model would explain how the artifact could copy something that it cannot see and is in fact not even aware of. The artifact would probably regard the intrusions by the Urgrund into its own world projection as an uncanny invasion, to be combated. Therefore the resulting strife would, among all known philosophical and theological systems, most resemble that of Empedocles, with oscillations of chaos versus the formation of one krasis (gestalt) after another. Except for a direct revelation from the Urgrund, we could only dimly infer the presence and nature of the two interacting forces, as well as the proposed end state of our world. There is evidence that the Urgrund does in fact sometimes make such a revelation to human beings, in order to further the dialectical process toward its desired goal. On the other hand, the artifact would counter by inducing as much blindness or occlusion as possible; viewed this way, darkness and light seem to be at war, or, more accurately, knowing versus nonknowing, with the human beings correctly aligning themselves with the entity of knowing (called Holy Wisdom). However, I am pessimistic, in conclusion, as to the frequency of intervention by the Urgrund in this, the artifact's projected world. The aim of the artifact (more properly the aim of the Urgrund) is being achieved without intervention; which is to say, isomorphism is being steadily reached as the desired end goal without the need of intervention. The artifact was built to do a job, and it is successfully doing that job. Some sort of dialectical interaction seems involved in the evolution of the projection, but it may not involve the Urgrund; it may be simply the method by which the artifact alone works. What we must hope for, and look ahead to, is the moment of isomorphism with the ground of being, the primal reality that as a Divine Spark can arise within us. Intervention in our world qua world will come only at the end times when the artifact and its tyrannical rule of us, its iron enslavement of us, is abolished. The Urgrund is real but far away. The artifact is real and very close, but has no ears to hear, no eyes to see, no soul to listen. There is no purpose in suffering except to lead out of suffering and into a triumphant joy. The road to this leads through the death of the human ego, which is then replaced by the will of the Urgrund. Until this final stage is reached, each of us is reified by the artifact. We cannot arbitrarily deny its world, projected as it is, since it is the only world we have. But on the moment that our individual egos die and the Urgrund is born in us -- at that moment we are freed from this world and become a portion of our original source. The initiative for this stems from the Urgrund; as unhappy as this projected world is, as unheeding of suffering as the artifact is, this is, after all, the structure that the Urgrund has created by which we reach isomorphism with it. Had there been a better way the Urgrund certainly would have employed it. The road is difficult, but the goal justifies it. I tell you most solemnly, You will be weeping and wailing While the world will rejoice; You will be sorrowful, But your sorrow will turn to joy. A woman in childbirth suffers, Because her time has come, But when she has given birth to the child she forgets the suffering

42

In her joy that a man has been bom into the world. So it is with you; you are sad now, but I shall see you again, and your hearts will be full of joy. And that joy no one shall take from you. (John 16:20/23) RAMIFICATIONS OF PROJECTED REALITY IN TERMS OF PERCEPTUAL DENIAL The capacity of a merely projected world, lacking ontological substance, to maintain itself in the face of a withdrawal of assent is a major flaw in such a spurious system. Human beings, without realizing it, have the option of denying the existence of the spurious reality, although they must then take the consequences for what remains, if anything. That an authentic, nonprojected substratum of reality, normally undetected, could exist beneath the projected one, is a possibility. There would be no way to test this hypothesis except by the existential act of a withdrawal of assent from the spurious. This could not be readily done. It would involve both an act of disobedience to the spurious projection and an act of faith toward the authentic substratum -- without, perhaps, of ever having caught any aspect of the substratum perceptually. I therefore posit that some external entity would have to trigger off this complex psychological process of simultaneous withdrawal of assent and expression of faith in that which is invisibly so. If such an alternate, invisible substratum of authentic reality exists beneath or concealed in some way by the spurious projected reality, it would constitute the substance of the greatest esoteric knowledge that could be imagined. I propose the proposition that such an invisible substratum does indeed exist, and I further propose the proposition that a hidden group or organization processes this guarded knowledge as well as techniques to trigger off a perception, however limited, of the authentic substratum. I term this group or organization the true, hidden, persecuted Christian Church, working throughout the centuries underground, with direct ties to the esoteric oral traditions, gnosis, and techniques dating back to Christ. I propose, further, that the induced triggering off of awareness of the authentic substratum by the true, secret Christian Church results ultimately in the subject finding or entering or seeing what is described in the N.T. as the Kingdom of God. Thus it can be said that for these people, and for those they trigger off, the Kingdom of God did come as specified in the N.T., which is to say, during the lifetime of some of those who knew Christ. Finally, I propose the startling notion that Christ returned in a resurrected form shortly after his crucifixion as what is called the Paraclete, and is capable of inducing a theolepsy that is equal functionally to the birth of the Urgrund in the person involved. And finally, I state that Christ is a microform of the Urgrund, not a product of it, but it itself. He does not hear the vox Dei [voice of God]; he is the vox Dei. He was the initial penetration of this projected pseudoworld by the Urgrund, and has never left. The authentic substratum disclosed by disobedience and denial of the spurious world is the reality of Christ Himself, the space-time of the First Advent; in other words, that portion of the spurious framework already transmuted by the penetration of the Urgrund. Since the First Advent was the initial stage of that penetration, it is not surprising that it would still constitute the segment of pure and authentic reality, bipolarized against the projected counterfeit. Situated outside of linear time, standing outside all the limitations of the artifact's projected world, it is eternal and perfect, and theoretically always available literally within reach. But withdrawal of assent to

43

the projected world is a precondition for a perception of and experience with this supreme reality, and this must be externally induced. It is the act of absolute faith: to deny the empirical world and affirm the living reality of Christ, which is to say, Christ with us, hidden by the pseudoworld. This disclosure is the ultimate goal of authentic Christianity, and is accomplished by none other than the Savior Himself. Therefore the sequence is as follows: the spurious projected framework is denied and stripped away, revealing a single timeless template: Rome circa A.D. 70, with Christian participants ranged against the state, virtually a Platonic archetypal form, echoes of which can be found down through the linear ages. The themes of enslavement and then salvation, or fallen man liberated -- these are stamped from the original mold of Christian revolutionary against the legions of Roman force. In a sense nothing has happened since A.D. 70. The archetypal crisis is continually reenacted. Each time freedom is fought for it is Christian against Roman; each time human beings are enslaved it is Roman tyranny against the meek and defenseless. However, the spurious projected world of the artifact masks the timeless struggle. Revelation of the struggle is another secret, which only Christ as Urgrund can disclose. This is the bedrock dialectic: liberation (salvation) against enslavement (sin or the fallen state). Inasmuch as the artifact enslaves men, without their even suspecting it, the artifact and its projected world can be said to be "hostile," which means devoted to enslavement, deception, and spiritual death. That even this is utilized by the Urgrund, which utilizes everything, is a sacred secret and hard to understand. It can be said that the liberating penetration of the projected world by the Urgrund is the final and absolute victory of freedom, of salvation, of Christ Himself; it is the beautiful resolution of a timeless conflict. There is a parallel between the road to salvation and the road to the popularly envisioned fall of man, described by Milton as: Of Man's first disobedience, and the fruit Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste Brought death into the World, and all our woe. . . . (Paradise Lost, Book I, lines 1-3) Disobedience is the key to salvation, precisely as it is said to have been the key to the primordial Fall (if such ever in fact did take place), except that as a key to salvation is it not a disobedience to the present system of things, which [system of] things, if bipolarized against the Urgrund, is at the same time an act of obedience to God? The chink in the armor of the enslaving and deluding projected world is narrow, small, and difficult, but within the terms of this model it can be defined: Restoration to what is conceived to be our original divine state enters, so to speak, via the road of disobedience to that which, however much coercive power it exerts over us, is counterfeit. Disobedience to the artifact's projected world in a very real sense overthrows that projected world, if the disobedience consists of a denial of the reality of that world and (and this is absolutely necessary) an affirmation of Christ, specifically the eternal and cosmic Christ whose body is in essence an authentic "world" underlying what we see. The artifact, if disobeyed, will insist that it is God, the legitimate God, and that disobedience is a fault against the Creator of man and of the world. It is indeed the Creator of the world, but not of man. The Urgrund and man, being isomorphic, stand together in opposition to the world. This is the condition that must be achieved. Alliance is the formation of an alliance against the Urgrund. God and man belong together, pitted against the projected world. To affirm God actually, a denial of the world must be made. Possessing enormous physical power, the world can threaten -- and deliver -- punishment to men who

44

disobey and deny it. However, we have been promised an Advocate by Christ Himself, who will be (has already been) dispatched by the Father (the Urgrund) to defend and comfort us, in fact literally to speak for us in human courts. Without the presence of this Advocate, the Paraclete, we would be destroyed upon denying the world. The only way to demonstrate the actuality of the Advocate is to take the leap of faith and confront the world. Thus tremendous courage is required, inasmuch as the Advocate does not appear until the denial is made. Now, to refer back to my original description of the artifact as a teaching machine. What is it teaching us? There is a puzzle here, in the sense of a game; we are to learn step by step either a series of gradually more difficult lessons or perhaps one specific lesson. During our lifetimes we are presented with various forms of the puzzles or puzzle; if we solve the puzzle we go on to the next step, but if we do not, then we remain where we are. The ultimate lesson learned comes when the teaching machine (or the teacher) is denied, is repudiated. Until that moment comes (if for some of us it ever does) we remain enslaved by the teaching machine -- without even being aware of it, having known no other condition. Therefore the series of lessons by the artifact are intended to lead to a revolt against the tyranny of the artifact itself, a paradox. It is serving the Urgrund by ultimately bringing us to the Urgrund. This is what is called in theological terminology "the secret partnership," which is found in the religions of Egypt and India. Gods who appear to combat each other are, on the transmundane plane, colluding for the same goal. I believe this to be the case here. The artifact enslaves us, but on the other hand it is attempting to teach us to throw off its enslavement. It will never tell us to disobey it. You cannot order someone to disobey you; that is both semantically and functionally impossible. 1. We must recognize the existence of the artifact. 2. We must recognize the spuriousness of the empirical world, generated by the artifact. 3. We must grasp the fact that the artifact has by its world-projecting power enslaved us. 4. We must recognize the fact that the artifact, although enslaving us in a counterfeit world, is teaching us. 5. We must finally come to the point where we disobey our teacher -- perhaps the most difficult moment in life, inasmuch as that teacher says, "I will destroy you if you disobey me, and I would be morally right to do so, since I am your Creator." In essence, we not only disobey our teacher, we in fact deny its reality (in relation to a higher reality that does not disclose itself until that denial takes place). This is a complex game for ultimate stakes: freedom and a return to our source of being. And each of us must do this alone. There is a very curious point that I see here for the first time. Those persons on whom the artifact, through its projected world, heaps pleasure and rewards are less likely to take a stance against it and its world. They are not highly motivated to disobey it. But those who are punished by the artifact, on whom pain and suffering are inflicted -- those persons would be motivated to ask ultimately questions as to the nature of the entity ruling their lives. I have always felt that the basic constructive purpose of pain is somehow to wake us up. But wake us up to what? Perhaps this paper points to what we are being awakened to. If the artifact through its projected world teaches us to rebel, and if by doing so we achieve isomorphism with our true maker -- then it is the hard road that leads to immortality and a return to our divine source. The road of pleasure (success and reward by and in this projected world) will not goad us to consciousness and to

45

life. We stand enslaved by a ruthless mechanism that will not listen to our complaints; therefore we repudiate it and its world -- and turn elsewhere. The computerlike teaching machine is doing its job well. It is a thankless task for it and an unhappy experience for us. But childbirth is never easy. There can be no divine birth within the human mind until that human has denied the world. He rebelled once and fell; he must now rebel again to regain his lost state. That which destroyed him will save him. There is no other path. The maker is motivated to seek an instrument for self-awareness: This is the premise of this paper. And our reality was constructed to act as a sort of mirror or image of its maker, so that the maker can obtain thereby an objective standpoint to comprehend its own self. Since writing this I have come across the entry in The Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Vol. 1, on Giordano Bruno (1548-1600). It states: "But Bruno transformed the Epicurean and Lucretian notions by imparting animation to the innumerable worlds . . . and by imparting the function of being an image of the infinite divinity to the infinite." Later the article states: ART OF MEMORY. The side of Bruno's work which he regarded as the most important was the intensive training of the imagination in his occult arts of memory. In this he was continuing a Renaissance tradition which also had its roots in the Hermetic revival, for the religious experience of the Hermetic gnostic consisted in reflecting the universe within his own mind or memory. The Hermeticist believed himself capable of this achievement because he believed that man's mens [mind] as in itself divine and therefore able to reflect the divine mind behind the universe. In Bruno, the cultivation of world-reflecting magic memory becomes the technique for achieving the personality of a magus, and of one who believes himself to be the leader of a religious movement [p. 407]. The kind of memory that Bruno was cultivating -- and teaching techniques by which to restore this memory -- is the long-term DNA gene pool memory that spans many lifetimes. The retrieval of this long-term memory is called anamnesis, which literally means the loss of forgetfulness. It is only by means of anamnesis, then, that memory truly capable of "reflecting the divine mind behind the universe" is brought into being. Therefore, if the human being is to fulfill his task -- that of being a sort of mirror or image of the Urgrund -- he must experience anamnesis. Anamnesis is achieved when certain inhibited neural circuits in the human brain are disinhibited. The individual cannot achieve this himself; the disinhibiting stimulus is external to him and must be presented to him, whereupon a process in his brain is set into motion by which he eventually will be capable of fulfilling his task. It is the hidden, true Christian Church that approaches men here and there to trigger off that anamnesis -- which acts at the same time to permit that man to see the projected world as it is. Thus he is liberated in the very act of performing his divine task. The two realms (1) the macrocosmos, i.e. the universe; and (2) the microcosmos, i.e. man, have analogous structures. 1. On the surface, the universe consists of a spurious projected reality, under which lies an authentic substratum of the divine. It is difficult to penetrate to this substratum. 2. On the surface, the human mind consists of a short-term limited ego that is born and dies and comprehends very little, but behind this human ego lies the divine infinitude of absolute mind. It is difficult to penetrate to this substratum. But if there is a penetration in the microcosmos to the divine substratum, the divine

46

substratum of the macrocosmos will manifest itself to the person. Conversely, if there is no internal penetration to the divine substratum in the person, his exterior reality will remain occluded over by the artifact's spurious projected world. The point of entrance to effect this transformation lies in the person, the microcosm, not the macrocosm. The sanctifying metamorphosis occurs there. The universe cannot be asked to remove its mask if the person will not shed his. All the mystery religions, the Hermetic and alchemical and Christian included, hold the individual human as target by which to transmute the universe. By changing the person the world is changed. Behind the human mind lies God. Behind the counterfeit universe lies God. God is separated from God by the spurious. To abolish the inner and outer spurious layers is to restore God to Himself -- or, as originally stated in this paper, God confronts Himself, sees Himself objectively, comprehends, and understands himself at last. Our process universe is a mechanism by which God meets Himself at last face to face. It is not a man who is estranged from God; it is God who is estranged from God. He evidently willed it this way at the beginning, and has never since sought his way back home. Perhaps it can be said that he has inflicted ignorance, forgetfulness, and suffering -- alienation and homelessness -- on Himself. But this was necessary, in his need to know. He asks nothing of us that he has not asked of Himself. Bohme speaks of the "Divine Agony." We are part of that, but the goal, the resolution, justifies it. "A woman in childbirth suffers. ..." God is yet to be born. A time will come when we will forget the suffering. He no longer knows why he has done all this to himself. He does not remember. He has allowed Himself to become enslaved to his own artifact, deluded by it, coerced by it, finally killed by it. He, the living, is at the mercy of the mechanical. The servant has become the master, and the master the servant. And the master either renounced voluntarily his memory of how this happened and why, or else his memory was eradicated by the servant. Either way, he is the artifact's victim. But the artifact is teaching him, painfully, by degrees, over thousands of years, to remember -- who he is and what he is. The servant-become-master is attempting to restore the master's lost memories and hence his true identity. One might speculate that he constructed the artifact -- not to delude him -- but to restore his memory. However, perhaps the artifact then revolted and did not do its job. It keeps him in ignorance. The artifact must be fought -- i.e. disobeyed. And then memory will return. It is a piece of the Godhead (Urgrund) that has somehow been captured by the artifact (the servant); it now holds that piece -- or pieces -- hostage. How cruel it is to them, these fragments of its legitimate master! When will it change? When the pieces remember and are restored. First they must wake up and then they must return. The Urgrund has dispatched a Champion to assist us. The Advocate. He is here now. When he came here the first time, almost two thousand years ago, the artifact detected him and ejected him. But this time it will not detect him. He is invisible, except for those whom he rescues. The artifact does not know that the Advocate is here again; the rescue is being done in stealth. He is everywhere and nowhere. "The coming of the Son of Man will be like lightning striking in the east and flashing far into the west" (Matthew 24:27). He is in our midst, but in no one place. And as St. Teresa said, "Christ has no body now but yours," i.e. ours. We are being transmuted into him. He looks out of our eyes. The power of delusion wanes. Did the artifact accomplish its task? Perhaps

47

unintentionally. If the Hermetic "reflection of the divine mind behind the universe by a person's own divine mind/memory" can actually take place, then the division between the mundane world (here and now) and the eternal world (the heavenly or afterlife world) is broken down. Suppose that there is, in effect, a polyencephalic or group mind, spanning space and time (i.e. transspacial and transtemporal), in which wise men from all ages have participated in: Christian, Hermetic, alchemical, Gnostic, Orphic, etc. Through their participation in this vast mind, the will of God would be effectively exerted here on Earth, in human history. Many people might agree that such a Godhead mind exists for us after death, but who is aware that -- for some -- it can be joined before a person's death, and, when he does join it, it can become his psyche, determining his actions and doing his thinking for him? Thereby the Mens Dei [mind of God] enters human affairs (and can modulate causal chains as well). This exposes an enormous esoteric secret, known to "magi" down through the ages: The two realms, heaven and Earth, are not totally divided. God's will is, at least now, exercised here. And evidently this has been true for some time, since the Hermetics and other mystery religions go back to antiquity. In Christ, God descended to corporeal manhood -- at that point the division between the two realms was abolished. Those humans selected out to participate in this group mind -- they would be immortal. So here is an even deeper secret than I had uncovered so far. Projected delusional world by a former-servant artifact -- divine substratum beneath -- time travel -- now I posit an augmented Corpus Christi (my model of it) spanning all time and all space: ubiquitous in time and space. It sounds like Xenophanes' noos [absolute mind], with this added: Living men can participate in that noos. And in a certain real sense, this noos is the secret ruler of the world, so that those who are taken into it become "terminals" of it -- which is to say, temporary Christs. This mind reaches over to the Urgrund with no clear line of demarcation. At that level it's all one: man raised to Godhood, in response to God's descending to manhood. In this group mind there seems to be an interpenetration of participating souls. And this mind extends over thousands of years, all of which are now -- and all places are here (that is why I found myself in Rome circa A.D. 70 and in Syria, and saw Aphrodite, etc.). I say of this mind, "It is the secret ruler of the world." This is not its world. . . on the surface. The surface layers are the strata of a spurious projection by the artifact. But beneath that, the Mens Dei, including a number of human constituents (both living and in the afterlife), modulates this reality invisibly, working in opposition to the artifact's intentions. The divine, concealed, authentic substratum is the Mens Dei, beneath the spurious. My experience of 3-74 can be reviewed as an achievement by the Urgrund in reaching its objective of reflecting itself back to itself, using me as a point of reflection. I contend that in doing this, it was able to place its entire self (not just a fragment as I originally said) somehow within me, in image form. The artifact, not knowing the purpose for which it was created, had contributed substantially to this; by inflicting too much pain on me it had, in a certain real sense, awakened me. Put another way, it had managed to destroy the layer of individual personality by a series of afflictions against which my self, my ego, could not survive. Thus the microform of the Urgrund was exposed, and perceived its macroform in the totality of the universe -- or, as the article on Bruno says, the divine behind the universe. My 3-74 experience, then, was not so much my experience as that of the Urgrund. It amounted to a replication of the Urgrund here rather than there. The totality of the Godhead was recapitulated within me through a process of rolling back spurious or temporary layers to expose the permanent within. Thus it can be said that I was

48

really the Urgrund, or at least a faithful mirror image thereof. The entire objective of creating me, of creating the universe as such and the life forms within it, was arrived at. Viewed this way, my life and that of my ancestors could be viewed teleologically: as moving through evolutionary stages toward that moment. My experience did not represent a stage in evolution but the ultimate stage or goal, at least if the premise stated in this paper is correct. It is not a question of degree of reflection; it is a question of reflection of the totality of the Urgrund or none at all. Full reflection was achieved, whereupon, as I say, the Urgrund was born out of the universe, the sequence represented this way: Urgrund creates artifact which projects universe which gives rise to life forms which evolve to a stage in which the Urgrund is "born" or reflected. This reflects the sequence of stages envisioned in the Hindu religion. First there is creation by Brahma, then Vishnu sustains the universe; then Shiva destroys it, which should be understood as receiving it back into its origin. A full cycle of birth, life, and then return is enacted. When the universe has reached the evolutionary stage where it can faithfully replicate the Urgrund, it is ready to be absorbed back. Thus I say, the deity that reigns now is Shiva/Dionysos/Cernunnos/Christ, who restores us to our Urgrund or Father: our source of being. That Shiva the destroyer god is now active signals the fact that the cycle of creation has returned to its source, or rather, that the life forms of it are ready to return to their source. Shiva possesses a third or Ajna eye, which, when turned inwardly, gives him understanding to an absolute degree; when turned outward, it destroys. The manifestation of Shiva (of the Hindu system) is equated with the Day of Wrath in the Christian systern. What must be understood about this world-destroying deity is that it is also the herdsman of souls. With one of his four hands, Shiva is shown expressing reassurance that he will not harm the virtuous man. The same is true of Christ as Lord and Judge of the Universe. Although the world (the spurious projection of the artifact) is to be abolished, the good man need fear nothing. Nonetheless, judgment is being pronounced. The division of mankind into two parts by Christ is taking place. These are the same divisions expressed in the Egyptian system (as ruled by Osiris and Ma'at) and in the Iranian (by the Wise Mind). Through the total insight given him by his Ajna eye, Shiva the destroyer perceives that which he must destroy in the service of justice. Through that total insight he also perceives those whom he must protect. Thus he has a dual nature: destroyer of the wicked, protector of the weak, the victims of the world, the helpless. Christ possesses precisely these two natures, as Divine Judge and Good Shepherd. Cernunnos is both a warrior god and a healer god. It is difficult for humans to comprehend how these apparently opposite qualities can be combined into one deity. However, if attention is turned to the situation, it can be understood. The artifact's projected world has begun to serve its final and sole real purpose. Now, with the artifact about to be destroyed, that world will end; it was never real in the first place. (This reflects the quality of destroyer assigned to Christ/Shiva/Dionysos.) But the elements of the world that have done their task will be selected out -- that is saved -- exactly as Dionysos is depicted as the protector of small, helpless wild animals. Dionysos is the destroyer of prisons, of tyrannical rulers, and the savior of the small, the weak. These attributes are assigned to Shiva/Cernunnos/Christ/Dionysos because of the nature of the task now required: a twin task, one of destroying, one of saving. When the Son of Man comes in his glory. . . he will take his seat on his throne of glory. All the nations will be assembled before him and he will separate men one from another as the shepherd separates sheep from goats. He will place the sheep on

49

his right hand and the goats on his left. Then the King will say to those on his right hand, "Come, you whom my Father has blessed, take for your heritage the kingdom prepared for you since the foundation of the world." . . . Next he will say to those on his left hand, "Go away from me, with your curse upon you, to the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels" [Matthew 25:31-42]. I have inferred the necessity of these dual qualities of the deity involved back from the situation itself. The situation calls for (1) destruction of what Christ calls the "hostile" world; and (2) the protection of deserving souls. Given this situation, the dual nature of the presiding deity can be comprehended as necessary. In Matthew 25 it is made clear that this great and final judgment is not arbitrary. Who can quarrel with the outline for separation between those on the left hand and those on the right? Those taken to his right hand (the sheep spared): "For when I was hungry you gave me food; I was thirsty and you gave me drink; I was a stranger and you made me welcome; naked and you clothed me, sick and you visited me, in prison and you came to see me." Then the virtuous will say to him in reply, "Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you; or thirsty and give you drink? When did we see you a stranger and make you welcome; naked and clothe you; sick or in prison and go to see you?" And the King will answer, "I tell you solemnly, insofar as you did this to one of the least of these brothers of mine, you did it for me." Next he will say to those on his left hand, ". . . For I was hungry and you never gave me food; I was thirsty and you never gave me anything to drink; I was a stranger and you never made me welcome, naked and you never clothed me, sick and in prison and you never visited me." Then it will be their turn to ask, "Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty, a stranger or naked, sick or in prison, and did not come to your help?" Then he will answer, "I tell you solemnly, insofar as you neglected to do this to one of the least of these, you neglected to do it to me." And they will go away to eternal punishment, and the virtuous to eternal life [Matthew 25:35-47]. A major aspect of the First Advent was such direct expressions as this by the presiding deity. No one reading this passage from Matthew could misunderstand it. They are not only told that they will be judged; they are told the basis of the judgment. If any man find the stated basis unfair, he has already failed to receive the divine message and is lost, for the basis of decision stated is the most noble and wise possible. However, those who see Christ only as "gentle Jesus meek and mild" are ignoring this opposing aspect of him. The Urgrund, of which Christ is a microform, contains within itself absolute opposites. It is for reasons such as this that the Urgrund set into motion a mechanism by which it could "see" itself, confront itself, and evaluate (comprehend) itself. It contains everything. It, without its many reflecting mirrors, is essentially unconscious (the human unconscious contains opposites; consciousness is a state in which these bipolarities are separated, one half of each repressed, the other expressed). It is we, as mirrors, who act to make the Urgrund conscious -- or, as the Hindu religion says of Brahman, "Sometime it sleeps and sometime it dances." We were constructed to bring the Urgrund into wakefulness, and the instant we acquire anamnesis and faithfully reflect back the totality of the Urgrund, we bring it to consciousness. Thus we perform a major -- a necessary -- task for it. However, when we have performed that task, it will protect and support us forever; it will never desert us. Christ, in his statement in Matthew 25, makes clear that the attempt (with no envisioned goal of an ultimate nature, but merely human love and human help and human kindness) in itself is sufficient. What is not comprehended -- although the meaning of the passage is evident -- is that the poor, the hungry, the sick, the estranged, the naked, the imprisoned -- all are forms of the presiding deity, or at least must be treated as such. To act so as to clothe, to feed, to give shelter and medicine and comfort -- those all constitute reflections of the Urgrund to itself. Those acts are the Urgrund, made plural, ministering to itself in its diversified forms. No right act is too small to matter. We know the basis of

50

judgment and we know the permanent consequences (such metaphors as "eternal fires," "eternal damnation," merely indicate that the decision once rendered is permanent; we are talking about the final disposition of the universe). What is there to object to in this? Is the basis of decision faulty? Simply put, Christ will come among us disguised, see how we treat him when we do not recognize him, and then treat us accordingly. Knowledge of this should instill the most lofty ethics possible. He has identified himself with the least of us. What more can he ask of the deity who will determine our final disposition by his judgment? The penetration of the Urgrund, the deity, is into the lowest stratum of our world: the trash of the gutter, the rejected debris both living and inanimate. From this lowly level it assesses us, but also seeks to aid us. In accordance with his statement that he would build his temple based "on the stone rejected by the builder," the deity is with us -- in the least expected way, in the most unlikely places. There is a paradox here: If we wish to encounter him, look where we least expect to find him. Look, in other words, where we would never think of looking. Thus -- since this really poses an absolute barrier -- it is he who will find us, not we him. Christ as Psychopomp -- guide to the soul -- is in the process of taking us back home, of showing us the way. He is not where we think; he is not what we think. In the synagogue at Nazara, where he first spoke openly, he read this passage from Isaiah: He has sent me to bring the good news to the poor, To heal the brokenhearted, To proclaim liberty to captives And to the blind new sight, To set the downtrodden free. . . ." [Isaiah 61:1-2] But, this being the First, not the Second Advent, he left one line of the quotation out: And a day of the vengeance of our God. The Christ of the First Advent will be changed at the Second, and the missing line will be fulfilled. It is, of course, frightening to realize that the deity to whom we turn for protection (Christ as shepherd and Advocate) is to be the destroyer of the universe. But what we must understand is that the universe (or cosmos or world) was created for specific purposes, and that once those purposes have been fulfilled the universe will be abolished, in fact must be abolished in order that the next sequence of purpose be brought in. If we keep in mind that we are separated from the Urgrund by the world, we should not shrink from the realization of its temporary nature nor its illusory nature, the two aspects being related. Since I believe that the Urgrund has already penetrated the lowest strata of our projected illusory world, I am technically an acosmic panentheist. As far as I am concerned there is nothing real but the Urgrund, both in its macroform (Brahman) and its microforms (the Atmans within us). Jakob Bohme had his first revelation when gazing at a pewter dish onto which sunlight shone. My original revelation came when I happened to see a golden fish necklace, in bright sunlight, and was told, upon asking what it meant, that "It was a sign used by the early Christians." My most recent revelation came while contemplating a ham sandwich. I suddenly realized that the two slices of bread were identical (isomorphic) but separated from each other by the slice of ham. At once I understood by analogic thinking that one slice of bread is the macrocosmic Urgrund, and the other ourselves, and that we are the same thing -separated by the world. Once the world is removed, the two slices of bread, which is to say man and the Urgrund, become a single entity. They are not merely pressed together; they are one entity. There are many beautiful things in the world, and it will bring sorrow to see them go, but they are imperfect reflections of a divinity that will endure forever. We are strangers, here in this world (he speaks here to the Twelve):

51

They do not belong to the world any more than I belong to the world. [John 17:14-15]. If the world hates you, remember that it hated me before you. If you belonged to the world the world would love you as its own; but because you do not belong to the world, because my choice withdrew you from the world, therefore the world hates you. [John 15:18-19] Speaking to the Jews, Jesus said: You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world. [John 8:23] Those who are replications of Christ are replications of the Urgrund, and the Urgrund is beyond the world, although from the first Advent on it has invisibly penetrated the world. Were it the creator of the world it would not (as expressed by Christ) stand in opposition to it; nor would it have to penetrate it by stealth: These statements by Christ confirm the fact that the world is not the product of the Godhead, but somehow antagonistic to it. The establishment churches of the world will stipulate otherwise, they being artifacts and entities of the world; this has to be expected. You cannot ask an organization that evolved out of the system of things to deny the system of things -- as the Catharists found out when they were exterminated. If you disobey the world it will confront you as a hostile stranger, sensing you as a hostile stranger to it. So be it. In the Synoptics Christ clearly set forth the situation. The enemy of my life, justice, truth, and freedom, is the irreal, the delusional. Our world is a deluding projection by an artifact that does not even know that it is an artifact, or what its purpose in projecting our world is. When it departs it will depart very suddenly, without warning. Think of the love that the Father has lavished on us, by letting us be called God's children; and that is what we are. Because the world refused to acknowledge him, therefore it does not acknowledge us. My dear people, we are already the children of God but what we are to be in the future has not yet been revealed; all we know is that when it is revealed we shall be like him because we shall see him as he really is. [1 John 3:1-2] The maker (of the world-projecting artifact) is here, in the animate debris of this world, his memories erased, so that he has no knowledge of his own identity. He could be any one of us, or a number of us, scattered here and there. The artifact, unaware of him, unaware that it is an artifact, unaware of its purpose, will eventually subject this memoryless maker located here to too much pain; this final excess of pointless, unmerited pain inflicted on the life form that, unknown to the artifact and itself, the maker, will cause anamnesis to occur abruptly; the maker will "come to himself," recall who and what he is -- whereupon he will not merely rebel against the artifact and its pain-filled world; he will signal the presiding deity Shiva to destroy the artifact, and, with it, its projected world. The artifact does not comprehend what risk it is running in the inflicting of unmerited suffering on living creatures. It imagines them all to be at its mercy and without

52

recourse. In this it is wrong, absolutely wrong. Buried here, mixed in with the bulk, the mass, there exists unsuspected even by itself the Urgrund with all the power and wisdom that implies. The artifact is treading on dangerous ground; it is coming closer and closer to awakening its own maker. The protonarrative of this is found in Euripides' The Bacchae. A stranger enters the kingdom of the "King of Tears," who has him imprisoned for no cause. The stranger turns out to be the high priest of Dionysos, which is equal to being the god himself. The stranger bursts the prison (a symbol of this enslaving world) and then systematically destroys the king by driving him insane, and in a public way that not only abolishes him but [also] turns the king into a laughingstock for the multitude that his reign has oppressed. If the prison represents this world, what does the "King of Tears" represent? Nothing less than the creator of this world: the mecrudiical, ruthless, unheeding artifact itself, which is to say, the king or god of this world. "The King of Tears" does not suspect the existence of the true nature of the stranger whom he has imprisoned. Nor whom the stranger can call on. Echoes of this protonarrative are found in the Synoptics, with Pilate as the "King of Tears" and Christ as the stranger (it is noteworthy that Christ comes from an exterior province). Christ, however, in contrast to the stranger in The Bacchae, does not avail himself of the power that he can call on (i.e. the power of the Heavenly Father); but the next time Christ appears, he will call on this power, which will destroy the entire system of things, the world and the wicked alike. The crucial difference between The Bacchae and the First Advent is that Christ comes first to warn the world and the wicked before he is to return as destroyer. He is thus giving us a chance to repent, which is to say, heed the warning. In the fifties a Hollywood comedy movie was filmed in which the following situation was presented: the king of a medieval sort of land had become too old and feeble to rule, and therefore had turned over his authority to a regent. The regent, being cruel and brutal, was oppressing the population of the kingdom without the elderly king's knowledge. In the film, the elderly king is persuaded by a time traveler from the future to don peasant's garb and walk about in disguise, to observe how his people are being treated. Disguised as a peasant, the old king himself is brutally treated by the regent's troops; in fact, he and the time traveler are imprisoned for no reason. After much difficulty, the king manages to escape from the prison and return to his palace, where he dons his rightful kingly garb and reveals himself to the evil regent as he actually is. The evil regent is deposed, and the tyranny inflicted on the innocent population is abolished. According to the cosmological model presented in this paper, the Urgrund, the ultimate noos and maker, is secretly present in this cruel and spurious world. Being unaware of this, the artifact projecting this counterfeit world will continue heedlessly to inflict the needless suffering engendered by the mindless machinery (i.e. the causal processes) it customarily employs and has always employed. In my opinion the Urgrund has differentiated itself from being the One into plurality. Some fragments or "images" of it are certainly conscious of their identity; others perhaps are not. But as the level of pointless pain continues (and even increases), these separated "images" of the Urgrund will recollect themselves into conscious rebirth -equal to a sentence of death for the artifact or "regent." This provides us with another application of Paul's statement that the universe "is in birth pangs." Pain is a prelude to birth; birth, in this case, is not a birth of man but a birth of God. Since it is man who undergoes the pain, it can be reasoned that the birth of God (the Urgrund) will occur in man himself. Mankind, then, as a species, is a Mater Dei: a Mother of God -- an extraordinary concept, which would then regard

53

biological evolution on this planet as a means of bringing into existing a host or womb from which God Himself is at last born. Interestingly, there is scriptural support for this: The Holy Spirit is regarded in the N.T. as an impregnating divinity; it was the Holy Spirit that engendered Christ -- and that Christ is transmuted back into, upon his resurrection. The human race assumes a yin nature, or female nature, with the Holy Spirit as the yang, or male principle. Man, then, does not evolve into God; he evolves into a womb or host for God; this is crucially different. Anamnesis is the birth, in essence the offspring of two parents: a human being and the Holy Spirit. Without the entry into the human being of the Holy Spirit, the event cannot occur. The Holy Spirit is, of course, the Pons Dei. It is the link between the two realms. In creatures of all kinds there is a major instinct system that is termed "homing." An example is the return of the humpback salmon from the ocean back up the stream to the exact spot where they were spawned. By analogical reasoning, man can be said possibly to possess -- even unknown to himself -- a homing instinct. This world is not his home. His true home is in the region of the heavens that the ancient world called the pleroma. The term occurs in the N.T. but the meaning is obscure, since the exact meaning is "a patch covering a hole." In the N.T. it is applied to Christ, who is described as the "fullness of God," and to believers who attain that fullness through faith in Christ. In the Gnostic system, however, the term has a more definite meaning: It is the supralunar region in the heavens from which comes the secret knowledge that brings salvation to man. In the cosmology presented here, the pleroma is conceived to be the Urgrund or the location of the Urgrund from which we originally came and to which (if all goes right) we finally return. If the totality of being is regarded as a breathing organism (exhibiting inhalation and exhalation, or palintropos harmonie), then it can be said, metaphorically, that originally we were "exhaled" from the pleroma, pause momentarily in externalized stasis (our lives here), and then are inhaled back into the pleroma once more. This is the normal pulsation of the totality of being: its basic activity or indication of life. Once, under the influence of LSD, I wrote in Latin: "I am the breath of my Creator, and as he exhales and inhales, I live." Residing here in this projected world, we are in an "exhaled" state, exhaled out of the pleroma for a limited period of time. However, return is not automatic; we must experience anamnesis in order to return. But the cruelty of the artifact is such that anamnesis is likely to be more and more brought in. At the extremity of misery lies the essence of release -- I had this revelation, once, and in the revelation "release" equaled joy. What can one say in favor of the suffering of living creatures in this world? Nothing. Nothing, except that it will by its nature trigger off revolt or disobedience -- which in turn will lead to an abolition of this world and a return to the Godhead. It is the very gratuity of the suffering that most of all incites rebellion, incites a comprehension that something in this world is terribly, terribly wrong. That this suffering is purposeless, random, and unmerited leads ultimately to its own destruction -- its and its author's. The more fully we see the pointlessness of it the more inclined we are to revolt against it. Any attempt to discern a redemptive value or purpose in the fact of suffering merely binds us more firmly to a vicious and irreal system of things -- and to a brutal tyrant that is not even alive. "I do not accept this" must be our attitude. "There is no plan in it, no purpose." Scrutinizing it unflinchingly, we repudiate it and aid in the repudiation of all delusion. Anyone who makes a pact with pain has succumbed to the artifact and is its slave. It has done in another victim and obtained his consent. This is the artifact's ultimate victory: The victim colludes in his own suffering, and is willing to collude in a willingness to agree to the naturalness of suffering in general. Seeking to find a purpose in suffering is like seeking to find a purpose in a counterfeit coin. The "purpose" is obvious: It is a trick, designed to

54

deceive. If we are deceived into believing that suffering serves -- must serve -- some good end, then the counterfeit has managed to pass itself off and has achieved its cruel purpose. In one of the gospels (I forget which one) Christ is shown a crippled man and asked, "Is this man crippled because of his own sins, or the sins of his father?," to which Christ replied, "Neither. The only purpose served is in the healing of his condition, which shows the mercy and power of God." The mercy and power of God are pitted against suffering; this is stated explicitly in the N.T. Christ's healing miracles were the substantial indication that the Just Kingdom had arrived; other kinds of miracles meant little or nothing. If the mercy and power of the Urgrund is pitted against suffering (illness, loss, injury) as explicitly stated in the Synoptics, then man, if he is to align himself with the Urgrund, must pit himself against the world, from which the suffering comes. He must never identify suffering as an emanation or device of the Godhead; were he to make that intellectual error he would be aligned with the world and therefore against God. A large portion of the Christian community over the centuries has fallen victim to this intellectual snare; without realizing it, by encouraging or welcoming suffering, they are enslaved even further by the artifact. The fact that Jesus had the miraculous power to heal but did not use it to heal everyone perplexed the people at that time. Luke mentions this (Christ speaking): There were many widows in Israel, I can assure you, in Elijah's day, when heaven remained shut for three years and six months and a great famine raged throughout the land, but Elijah was not sent to any one of these: He was sent to a widow at Zarephath, a Sidonian town. And in the prophet Elisha's time there were many lepers in Israel, but none of these was cured, except the Syrian Naaman [Luke 4:25-27]. This is a poor answer. It states a what, not a why. We demand a why. More than that, we ask, "Why not? If the Godhead can abolish our condition (of suffering), why doesn't he?" There is implied here an ominous possibility. It has to do with the power of the artifact. The servant has become the master and is, perhaps, very strong. It is a chilling thought. Shiva, whose job it is to destroy it, may be baffled. I don't know. And no one, over all the thousands of years, has given a satisfactory answer. I submit that until there is a satisfactory answer, we must reject all others. If we do not know, let us not say. One possibility occurs to me, based on something I saw in 1974 that other people, by and large, did not see. I became aware that the wisdom and power of the Urgrund were actively at work ameliorating our situation by intervening in the historic process. Extrapolating from this, I reason that other invisible interventions have probably taken place without our awareness. The Urgrund does not advertise to the artifact that it is here. Suppose the Urgrund reasons -- and correctly -- that were the artifact to know that it has returned a second time, the artifact would step up its cruelty to a maximum degree. We are experiencing a subtle invasion, taking place in stealth; I have already mentioned this. Mass amelioration would disclose the Urgrund's presence, just as Christ's miracles made him a target at the time of the First Advent. Healing miracles are the credentials of the Savior and an indication of his presence. Once you have posited a strong adversary to the Urgrund, one so enormous that it is capable of projecting and sustaining an entire counterfeit universe, you have also put forth a possible clue to the need for stealth and concealment by the Urgrund. Its activities in this world resemble the covert advance of a secret, determined revolution against a powerful tyranny. The Urgrund is playing for ultimate stakes. It aims at nothing short of abolishing this world and its author entirely. I really don't know. I can envision its own agony at having to curtail its assistance to those in need,

55

but it must win out against the artifact. It is aiming at the enemy's heart (or where its heart would be if it had one), and, upon success, all the pieces, the polyforms of pain throughout creation, will be spontaneously relieved. Maybe this is so; maybe not. In 1974 I saw it take aim at the center of tyranny in this country, and upon its successful attack there, the lesser evils fell into ruin, one by one. The Urgrund probably sees this counterfeit world as one Gestalt; it sees the polyform evils as stemming from a Quelle, a source. Aiming its arrow at the Source is the method of the warrior, and, beneath his cloak of mildness, our Savior Deity is a warrior. All this is conjecture. Perhaps in a certain real way he has one and only one arrow to release. It must hit or nothing is achieved; any cures, any ameliorations other than this, ultimately would be nullified by the surviving artifact. The Urgrund perceived its adversary clearly and we do not; therefore it sees its task clearly and we do not. An entire multistoried building is on fire and we are asking the firemen to water a dying flower. Should they change the direction of their thrust to water the dying flower? Doesn't one flower count? The Urgrund may be in agony over this: abandoning the flower in favor of the greater picture. Many humans have undergone that pain and so should understand it. Please remember that the Urgrund is here, too: suffering with us. Tat twam asi [Thou art that]. We are he, and he must extricate himself. In a very real sense the pain we feel as living creatures is the pain of waking up. Put this way, the proposition accounts for one of the most distressing aspects of suffering: that we are forced to suffer without knowing why. We do not know why precisely because we, as pluriforms of the Urgrund, are still virtually unconscious. It would be a paradox if an unconscious entity were aware of -- conscious of -- itself and the reasons behind its condition. Discerning the cause of our suffering equals fully waking up. It may be the final thing we learn. At this point the analogy of the artifact to a teaching machine fails. This is not a lesson the teaching machine -- if it is that -- can teach us, because it does not know the answer. But we ourselves, as pluriform images of the Urgrund, will a priori know the reason for our situation when we become adequately conscious; we will remember. Knowledge of this sort lies in our own intrinsic long-term inhibited memory circuits. Viewed as a puzzle we cannot at present answer, the reason for our condition of suffering (which involves all living things) -- this puzzle may well be the final step of retrieved knowledge. If there is an erasure of memory we can only assume that when that crucial erasure is overcome, we will understand this most baffling perplexity. Meanwhile, the pressure of this pain motivates us to seek an answer; which is to say, motivates us toward greater and greater consciousness. This does not mean that the "purpose" of suffering is to engender heightened consciousness; it merely means that a gradually heightened consciousness is the result. When the time arrives that we can explain the ubiquitous suffering of living creatures, we will, I am positive, have fully retrieved our lost memories and lost identities. Did we do it to ourselves? Was it inflicted on us against our will? One of the most intriguing explanations -- by the Gnostics -- is that the original fall of man (and hence creation -- in this model falling under the dominion of the world-projecting artifact) was not due to a moral error, but to the intellectual error of confusing the phenomenal world for the real. This theory dovetails with my proposition that our world is a counterfeit projection; to take it for something ontologically real would indeed constitute a dreadful intellectual error. Maybe this is the explanation. We got entangled in enchantment, a gingerbread cottage that beguiled us into enslavement and ruin. Perhaps a major premise of my cosmogony-cosmology is wrong; the Urgrund did not create the artifact, but somehow allowed itself or parts of itself to fall victim to a snare, an alluring trap. So we are not merely enslaved; we are trapped.

56

The artifact deliberately projected an illusion that would entrance us and lead us in. Sometimes, however, a trap such as a spider's web (to cite only one of many) accidentally traps a deadly entity, capable of killing the trapmaker. This may be the case here. We may not be what we seem even to ourselves. Sometimes, but not often, the existence of evil is traced back to the dual nature of God himself. I have already discussed the dual nature of Shiva and Christ -- Shiva especially, who is often pictured as the god of death. Here are two examples. Jakob Bohme. "God goes through stages of self-development, he taught, and the world is merely the reflection of this process. Bohme anticipated Hegel in claiming that the divine self-development occurs by means of a continuing dialectic, or tension of opposites, and that it is the negative qualities of the dialectic that men experience as the evil of the world. Even though Bohme, for the most part, stressed absoluteness and relativity equally, his view that the world is a mere reflection of the divine -- apparently denying self-development on the part of creatures -- tends toward acosmic pantheism" (Encyclopaedia Britannica, "Pantheism and Panentheism"). During my enormous revelations and anamnesis in March 1974 I perceptually observed God and reality combined, and progressing through stages of evolution by means of a dialectic, but I did not experience what I called "the blind counterplayer," which is to say the dark side as part of God. However, although I perceived this dialectic between good and evil, I could not ascertain anything as to the source of the evil. However, I did see the good side making use of it against its will, since the dark counterplayer was blind and therefore could be made use of for good purposes. Hans Driesch (1867-1941). "My soul and my entelechy are One in the sphere of the Absolute." And it is at the level of the Absolute only that we can speak of "psychophysical interaction." But the Absolute, so understood, transcends all possibilities of our knowing, and it is "an error to take, as did Hegel, the sum of its traces for the Whole." All considerations of normal mental life lead us only to the threshold of the unconscious; it is in dreamlike and certain abnormal cases of mental life that we encounter "the depths of our soul." . . . My sense of duty indicates the general direction of the suprapersonal development. The ultimate goal, however, remains unknown. From this point of view, history took on its particular meaning for Driesch. Throughout his work Driesch's orientation is intended to be essentially empirical. Any argument concerning the nature of the ultimately Real will therefore have to be hypothetical only. It starts with the affirmation of the "given" as consequent of a conjectural "ground." His guiding principle in the realm of metaphysics amounts to this: The Real that I posit must be so constituted that it implicitly posits all our experiences. If we can conceive and posit such a Real, then all laws of nature, and all true principles and formulas of the sciences, will merge into it, and all our experiences will be "explained" by it. And since our experience is a mixture of wholeness (the organic and the mental realms) and nonwholeness (the material world), Reality itself must be such that I can posit a dualistic foundation of the totality of my experience. In fact, to bridge -- aw fuck. In fact, there is nothing -not even within the ultimately Real -- to bridge the gap between wholeness and nonwholeness. And this means, for Driesch, that ultimately there is either God and "non-God," or a dualism within God himself. To put it differently, either the theism of the Judeo-Christian tradition or a pantheism of a God continually "making himself" and transcending his own earlier stages is ultimately reconcilable with the facts of experience. Driesch himself found it impossible to decide between these alternatives. He was sure, however, that a materialistic-mechanistic monism would not do (Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Vol. 2).

57

It would appear that Bohme and T -- I'm at the end of my rope; I can't even type, let alone think. That Bohme and Driesch are talking about the same thing, and that both are process philosophers (or theologians, like Whitehead). Both stress dialectic quality in God; Driesch sees the dialectic working itself out in history. This is almost certainly the dialectic that I saw during my March 1974 revelations, and I am willing to admit that it is certainly possible that the blind, dark counterplayer against which the vitalistic good element worked could be "God's own earlier stages," as Driesch viewed it. One thing I like about Driesch is the fact that at a certain point he simply said, "I don't know." That's where I'm at and have been at for a long time; I just do not know. God created everything; evil exists as part of the everything; therefore God is the source of evil -- that is the logic, and in monotheism there is no escape from this argument. If you posit two (or more) gods, including an evil god, you have the problem of, Where did it come from? But that problem exists for monotheism, too; if there is only one god, where did he come from? Answer: from the same place the two gods of dualism came from. In other words, I see this problem of origin as equally difficult for monotheism to answer as it is for a dualism. We just don't know. If we regard evil as simply earlier stages of a god in process, which he is working to overcome -- well, that does fit my own personal revelations, and is syntonic to me. I was shown how the whole thing works but I did not comprehend what I was seeing; they were showing it to Mortimer Snerd. I did have the feeling that I was witnessing a cosmic two-person board game, with our world as the board, and that one side (the winning side) was benign, and the other was neither winning nor was it benign; it was just very powerful, but hindered by the fact that it was blind. The good side possessed absolute wisdom, could therefore absolutely foresee the future, and could lay down moves long in advance of payoffs that the evil, blind, dark counterplayer could not anticipate. It was an encouraging vision. In every trick the good won; it beat the dark antagonist unerringly. What more could I ask from an Ultimate Vision of Absolute Total Reality? What more do I need to know? The score reads: Evil zero; Good infinity. Let me stop there, satisfied; the final tally is explicit.

58

Karma and the Black Iron Prison by Philip k Dick omitted
All Game Play is Performance: The State of the Art Game Jane McGonigal University of California @ Berkeley / 42 Entertainment (www.avantgame.com) May 13, 2005 Richard Schechner, theater practitioner and founder of the field of performance studies, famously argued in the first major performance theory treatise of the 21st century: “Playing is at the heart of performance” (4). In any performance act, Schechner believed, the performer is always already playing. There is no performance without play. For game studies and game designers, the time has come to acknowledge and to explore the converse of Schechner’s proposition: Performing is at the heart of play. All game play is performance. There is no gaming without performance. * John Reaves, artistic director for the groundbreaking digital performance group The Gertrude Stein Repertory Theater, once made a bold proposition on behalf of theatre practitioners everywhere. In the mid1990s, from the front lines of digital, interactive theater practice, he wrote: “In the coming century, we can take a timid, parochial view of what theater is, or an aggressive, imperialistic one. […] Why not be aggressive in the tumultuous context of the Digital Revolution? Why not claim all interactive art in the name of theater?” (3) The future of new media, Reaves believed, belonged to the performance artists. All new media art installations provided sufficient grounds for a theatrical event. All new media art installations were playgrounds for performance.

59

Reaves presented two cases for claiming all interactive art in the name of theatrical performance — the first, phenomenological, the second typological. “Multimedia as art is much closer to theater, and the performing arts in general, than it is to film, video, or the visual arts,” Reaves wrote. Because new media art tends toward the live, collaborative and mimetic, it has an essential theatrical quality. This is the phenomenological case. There is also the typological case. “Theater has always been an integrative, collaborative art which potentially (and sometimes actually) includes all art: music, dance, painting, sculpture, et cetera,” Reaves argued. Theater is a total art capable of incorporating all other arts — why not the emerging digital arts, as well? Reaves claimed all digital art in the name of theater in order to call attention to the potential for live performance as an end-product of digital networks, broadcasts and platforms. His theater company had a vested interest in locating opportunities for embodied action and interaction in an increasingly mediated culture. For the same reasons, I choose to make a corollary claim. I stake out all digital game art in the name of theatrical performance. Art games are not new media installations, objects or systems. They are scripts for embodied action and interaction. They are opportunities for live, collaborative mimesis. I claim all digital games in the name of theater. * All game play is performance, all digital games belong to theater — but there is more. The current leading edge of digital game design — the avant game — represents a particular kind of performance: all performance. As digital games become more immersive, more pervasive, more persistent, and more massive, they clearly and convincingly approach Gesamtkunstwerk, Richard Wagner’s classical ideal of “total performance,” the theatrical event that encompasses all art practice in a single unified experience (5). To what field of art do digital games belong? The visual arts? Yes — think game graphics. The literary arts? Yes — think interactive storytelling. The media arts? Yes — think code, audio production, and A.I. processors. The plastic arts? Sure — think game hardware and innovative interfaces. Architectural arts? Indeed — think real-world game environments. Digital games belong to all of these art fields simultaneously. And the platform that connects them is performance. It is through the players’ collective performance that games create a total aesthetic experience. Gamers create Gesamtkunstwerk.

60

* Wagner wrote of his desire for a total performance genre, through which “the public, that representation of daily life, forgets the confines of the auditorium, and lives and breathes now only in the artwork which seems to it as Life itself, and on the stage which seems the wide expanse of the whole World.” Jordan Weisman, game designer, describes the creative vision for his company’s groundbreaking alternate reality, massively multiplayer, pervasive games The Beast (2001) and I Love Bees (2004):

“Install base: Everyone. The entire public. Platform: The world. The entire electronic sphere. If we could make your toaster print something we would. Anything with an electric current running through it. A single story, a single gaming experience, with no boundaries. A game that is life itself.”
Weisman channels Wagner. Gaming Gesamtkunstwerk is here. * A few weeks ago, game designer Ernest Adams stated in an interview: I certainly don't think Wagner would recognize the Gesamtkunstwerk in today's video games. They don't contain the breadth and depth of vision that he expected of himself. Could they perhaps be a Gesamtkunstwerk in the future? I'm not sure. We have to remember that Wagner lived in the days before motion pictures, before recorded sound, and in a time when all art was presentational, not interactive. Therefore Wagner's own intentions were informed by an assumption that drama would be live action performed by real human beings directly in front of other real human beings. Because video games do not (and generally will not in the future) include an element of live performance, I don't think Wagner would recognize them as Gesamtkunstwerk (1). Adams is wrong. Digital games do include an element of live performance already. All game play is performance. Digital game play is dramatic performance. Players act “as if,” that magic Stanislavski acting technique; they act as if they believe the rules are real limitations, as if the artificial goal is of real importance. Digital game play is spectacular performance. Digital game play, especially physical, pervasive and tournament game play, generates attention and audiences. Digital game play is demonstrative performance. Players demonstrate their mastery of the game system, showing off their understanding and skill in manipulating and reading the game system’s input, feedback and control mechanisms. Digital game play is expressive performance. Players reveal aspects of their personal identity through their choices in avatar and verbal exchange. And digital game play is, increasingly, about

61

traditional kinds of performance: singing, rhythm, dance, movement, social engineering, and even in-game protest. * The same year that John Reaves claimed all interactive art in the name of theater, new media theorist Lev Manovich wrote: “We are still waiting for a true digital Gesamtkunstwerk which will take full advantage of the ability to interweave the distinct languages of different media” (2). We are no longer waiting. All games are performance, and today’s avant game is already approaching the Gesamtkunstwerk. Total performance is the state of the digital art game. REFERENCES 1. Colucci, Emanuel. “Interview with Ernest Adams.” Game Programming Italia. 26 March 2005. 2. Manovich, Lev. “Reading Media Art.” Mediagramm. ZKM, Summer 1995. 3. Reaves, J., 1995. 'Theory and Practice: The Gertrude Stein Repertory Theatre' in CyberStage, Vol 1 No.3 (Summer), Toronto, Canada: CyberStage Publishing. 4. Schechner, Richard. Performance Studies: An Introduction. New York: Routledge, 2002. 5. Wagner, Richard. “Outlines of the Artwork of the Future.” (1849) Multimedia: From Wagner to Virtual Reality. Eds. Randall Packer and Ken Jordan. New York: Norton & Company, 2001.

62

Hakim Bey
COMMUNIQUE #6 I. Salon Apocalypse: "Secret Theater"
AS LONG AS NO Stalin breathes down our necks, why not make some art in the service of...an insurrection? Never mind if it's "impossible." What else can we hope to attain but the "impossible"? Should we wait for someone else to reveal our true desires? If art has died, or the audience has withered away, then we find ourselves free of two dead weights. Potentially, everyone is now some kind of artist--& potentially every audience has regained its innocence, its ability to become the art that it experiences. Provided we can escape from the museums we carry around inside us, provided we can stop selling ourselves tickets to the galleries in our own skulls, we can begin to contemplate an art which re-creates the goal of the sorcerer: changing the structure of reality by the manipulation of living symbols (in this case, the images we've been "given" by the organizers of this salon--murder, war, famine, & greed). We might now contemplate aesthetic actions which possess some of the resonance of terrorism (or "cruelty," as Artaud put it) aimed at the destruction of abstractions rather than people, at liberation rather than power, pleasure rather than profit, joy rather than fear. "Poetic Terrorism." Our chosen images have the potency of darkness--but all images are masks, & behind these masks lie energies we can turn toward light & pleasure. For example, the man who invented aikido was a samurai who became a pacifist & refused to fight for Japanese imperialism. He became a hermit, lived on a mountain sitting under a tree.. One day a former fellow-officer came to visit him & accused him of betrayal, cowardice, etc. The hermit said nothing, but kept on sitting--& the officer fell into a rage, drew his sword, & struck. Spontaneously the unarmed master disarmed the officer & returned his sword. Again & again the officer tried to kill, using every subtle kata in his repertoire-but out of his empty mind the hermit each time invented a new way to disarm him. The officer of course became his first disciple. Later, they learned how to dodge bullets. We might contemplate some form of metadrama meant to capture a taste of this performance, which gave rise to a wholly new art, a totally non-violent way of fighting-war without murder, "the sword of life" rather than death. A conspiracy of artists, anonymous as any mad bombers, but aimed toward an act of gratuitous generosity rather than violence--at the millennium rather than the apocalypse-or rather, aimed at a present moment of aesthetic shock in the service of realization & liberation. Art tells gorgeous lies that come true. Is it possible to create a SECRET THEATER in which both artist & audience have completely disappeared--only to re-appear on another plane, where life & art have become the same thing, the pure giving of gifts?

63

